When you are launching email campaigns, you need to take care of dozens of aspects that will determine its success or failure. Bulk email validation is one of such aspects, and it plays a great role to support a good sender reputation, as well as guaranteeing high open and conversion rates.  Let’s contemplate the major points you should know about bulk email verification software and its value. Email validation is essential for your subscriber list. You need it when you add new users to your lists, so you can check if these emails are still in use, if they can receive emails, and if they belong to real and operating domains. You also need to check your old email lists regularly, as emails can become inactive over time.  Inactive emails, as well as spam traps, lead to high bounce rates that will associate with your email box. They can spoil your sender’s reputation and make you look like a spammer. As a result, you will have a lot of problems trying to whitelist the email address you use to send an email campaign. An email verifier is a software solution that automatically runs verification tests on your email lists. A bulk email verification tool will do it more efficiently than you would do it manually, and hence, save you a lot of time and resources. Usually, they might come together with our tools, for example, your email sender. Verification tools unite different types of tests (syntax, domain checks, etc.) to see if the email is valid and active. Users need to upload their mail list and set up a test, and it is everything that you would need to do: everything else will be taken care of by the software piece.  So, how to choose a reliable email verifier that will fulfill your needs? We suggest considering the next points: ALSO READ: Facebook users react to ‘Expect good news soon’ post by NANS president  As email marketing is quite popular right now, the market for solutions is also great. So, you will definitely have a lot of options to consider and select the one that will suit you the most. Email verification is important for your email activities. Don’t neglect it and take your time to run checks, otherwise, you might generate a big amount of trouble for your current email address.  