Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has sworn in Dr Rita-Mary Okoro as the state Head of Service. Dr Okorie’s appointment came twelve months after the immediate past Head of Service, Dr Chambalian Nwele, retired. Nwele retired as a civil servant on June 30, 2021. The government also inaugurated five commissioners and two others as special assistants. The commissioners are Chief Mathias Adum, Chief Romanus Nwasum, Mr Celestine Nwokpuru Nwali, Chief Chris Uchaji and Mrs Beatrice Eze. Also sworn in as Special Assistants are Barr Uchenna Otuh and Mr Chooks Oko. During the inauguration, Umahi described his recent presidential outing as an adventure with many lessons. He reiterated the unwavering support of Ebonyi State to All Progressives Congress (APC) and regretted that Ohaneze Ndigbo could not speak out for Ndigbo at a time it mattered most. He, however, expressed the commitment of the State Government toward Nigeria’s agenda and not any tribal agenda.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…