The presidential aspirant of the Action Alliance, Dr Tunde Anifowose Kelani, has lamented the insecurity of the country following the terrorists’ attack on innocent worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa, in Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday. Speaking with Tribune Online, Kelani said the attack was uncalled for just as he urged President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to get the perpetrators and make them scapegoats to other terrorist groups. He said the citizens demand justice while describing the attack as an ugly thing that could ever happen to any society. The CEO at Siegener Sabithos International Services disclosed that “As an advocate of peace and established democracy, it’s nothing but a failure to feel insecure even at the safest place, sanctuary. I vehemently oppose the action and hope that the authorities will beam their searchlight to dig into the hideouts of those evil perpetrators. This should not be happening in a democratic society where people have entrusted their confidence in elective representatives.” “It’s so sad that we are experiencing such insecurity at this time that the country is facing a lot more than the citizens can bear. I sympathise with the families of the deceased and pray that God gives them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. “It’s so sad that we are experiencing such insecurity at this time that the country is facing a lot more than the citizens can bear. I sympathise with the families of the deceased and pray that God gives them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” he added.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Kelani condemns Owo attack, calls for total justice Kelani condemns Owo attack, calls for total justice Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.