Barely a  week after a terrorist attack at St.Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa street, Owo, in Owo Local Government Area of the state which claimed several lives of worshipers while many are injured, six people were reportedly shot dead by some gunmen suspected to be bandits, while some others were injured in the Sabo area of Ondo town, Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo state. According to a source who spoke under the condition of anonymity, the hoodlums were on motorcycles when they carried out the attack, while they also robbed some residents in the area were also robbed during the attack. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Funmilayo Odunlami, who confirmed the incident said it was a robbery case and men of the command were already on the trail of the perpetrators. Details later…….  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Again, gunmen kill six in Ondo Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa Again, gunmen kill six in Ondo A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.