The President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan on Friday evening held a meeting with the striking staff of the National Assembly with a view to ending the one-week strike to press home the demand for payment of outstanding National Minimum Wage and implementation of Revised Conditions of Service. According to the notice sent to the Parliamentary Correspondents, the meeting which was initiated at the instance of the Senate President was scheduled for 4 pm in Conference Room 301 in the Senate Wing. One of the staff who was privy to the development explained the meeting was aimed at prevailing on the protesting workers to suspend the protest ahead of the resumption scheduled for Tuesday, 15th June 2022. Some of the staff who converged at the entrance of the National Assembly complex chanted a solidarity song: ‘Freedom come by struggle, by struggle, freedom come’, as the Senate President’s convoy entered the complex. Meanwhile, all efforts by Parliamentary Correspondents to attend the meeting were rebuffed as some of the dreadful-looking National Assembly staff barred them from accessing the complex. “We don’t need Journalists, go! What are you doing here, the meeting is not for you.”  At the time of filing this report, the meeting was still ongoing. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Senate President meets NASS workers MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Senate President meets NASS workers USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.