Meat processors under the aegis of Corporate Meat Processors Association, Lagos State,  have hinted that they are set to provide Nigerians with quality, healthy and hygienic packaged meat products which will be sold in a well-packaged form and affordable to Nigerians Chairman of the Association, Mr Adesida Adegboyega, made this known to the  Nigerian Tribune after the association’s maiden meeting held in Lagos recently. Adegboyega said:”We are set to change the old ways of slaughtering animals on the floor and selling  meat in the open market. “The aim of the members coming together as corporate meat processors is to focus on how to collectively support each other for the good of all so that together we can provide Nigerians with wholesome quality and hygienic meat for their consumption.” The association which presently has forty five members and has the approval of the Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture hopes to digitalise the meat market space where people can just call and get their meat products delivered to their office, house or store. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech  Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.