As the All Progressive Congress (APC) Special Primary kicks off, officials of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC)stormed the Eagle Square, the venue of the party’s special presidential convention holding in Abuja. The motive of the commission’s officials present at the venue is not yet known but it may not be unconnected with the move to prevent politicians from sharing money openly with delegates. Tribune Online reports that EFCC Officials were seen moving from one point to the other at different parts of the venue of the convention. It would be recalled that EFCC officials were also present at the PDP convention held last week at the Moshood Abiola International Stadium in Abuja, where former Vice President Atiku Abubakar emerged as Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential flagbearer for the 2023 general election. Meanwhile, delegates from different states have started arriving at Eagle Square the venue of the convention. Also, there is a tight security arrangement at the venue as people without accreditation tags were not allowed near the venue to prevent unwanted crowds that characterized the last convention of the party held at the same venue.  Details later…… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…EFCC Officials Storm Venue of APC Special Presidential Primary Convention 2022 Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…EFCC Officials Storm Venue of APC Special Presidential Primary Convention 2022 Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…EFCC Officials Storm Venue of APC Special Presidential Primary Convention 2022 Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.