The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the gruesome terrorist attack and killing of many innocent worshippers during a church service at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday. In a statement issued by Hon Debo Ologunagba, the National Publicity Secretary on Sunday, the party expressed alarm over how the terrorists invaded the church, “opened fire on worshippers, freely used explosives within the premises, murdered our compatriots in cold blood and left unchallenged.” The party alleged that the present administration has surrendered sovereignty to terrorists who it noted are now expanding their reign of terror and territorial occupation. According to the main opposition party, “Today’s attack on St. Francis Church appears to be a part in the series of apparently organised assaults by terrorists who are emboldened by the alleged complicity of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration, which has refused to confront the terrorists despite being aware of their plans as exposed by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai at the wake of recent terrorist attacks on Kaduna State. “It is now obvious that the APC administration is deliberately surrendering the sovereignty of a large portion of the territory of our nation to terrorists, who are now expanding their reign of terror and territorial occupation in our country.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  The PDP called on the APC to “come clean on the pact it has with terrorists, for which it continues to look away as these outlaws mercilessly ravage our nation, massacre Nigerians and take many citizens captive.” It added: It is instructive to state that the APC has failed to account for the terrorists it imported into our country to assist it rigging the 2019 elections and who APC leaders openly romance with despite their atrocities against Nigerians. “We hope that the APC has not again contracted these outlaws to unleash terror on Nigerians so as to trigger tension and derail the 2023 general elections. “We ask, how does President Buhari sleep at night seeing the gruesome murder and butchering of our citizens daily as again witnessed in today’s dawn attack on St Francis Church Owo? How many more Nigerians have to die before the APC reins in its terrorists? “It is disheartening and traumatic to witness gory pictures and videos of children and the elderly murdered in cold blood this morning by terrorists with President Buhari and his apologists playing dumb to these happening by deodorizing terrorists as bandits. “President Buhari and his government have irretrievably failed in the primary purpose of government which is to provide security and welfare for its citizens. This President has completely abdicated his duties, become numb to daily reports of killings, adductions and kidnappings by terrorists and remain absent when our nation needed him most. “It is now crystal clear that President Buhari is incapable, incompetent and does not possess the capacity and integrity to hold office as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He is a failed leader and history will not be kind to him and his administration for his abysmal failure in office. “President Buhari must live up to his oath of office by immediately addressing the nation on measures to stop this human carnage in our country and give the nation some sense of leadership which has been absent in the last seven years.” The PDP commiserated with the families of the victims of what it called “this senseless attack” and other terrorist attacks in the country, the Catholic Church, the Government as well as the people of Ondo State as it charged security agencies to leave no stone unturned to apprehend the perpetrators. We Will Sanction Tinubu For Insulting Buhari ― Adamu, APC National Chairman PDP condemns Owo church terrorist attack How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs PDP condemns Owo church terrorist attack Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.