A 37-year old businessman, Mr Emmanuel Okoh was on Wednesday elected as the governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) in Delta State. Through a voice vote, Mr Okoh was returned unopposed by the 75 delegates from the 25 local government areas of the State. The election which was held at the party’s Secretariat in Asaba was monitored by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Chairman of the three-man electoral committee, Emeka Nkwoala said the aspirant went through the screening, adding that in accordance with the constitution of the party and the Electoral Act, the delegates voted for him to fly the flag of the party to rescue Delta State. Speaking to reporters, the candidate who hails from Ika North-East, the same local government as the incumbent governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, boasted that he has what it takes to take Delta to a higher level of development. He urged Deltans to disregard the hue and cry for zoning to be upheld, insisting that leaders should be voted into office based on their competence and capacity to deliver democratic dividends.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…  Delta ZLP governorship candidate… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…  Delta ZLP governorship candidate…