Russian President Vladimir Putin says the West will not be able to cut itself off from Russian oil and gas for several years. He added that nobody knows what might happen in that time, so Russian companies would not be “concreting over their oil wells”. It comes as a US official admitted that Russian profits on energy may be higher now than they were before the war. The EU currently imports around 40% of its gas from Russia. The bloc has pledged to reduce its dependency on Russian oil by 90% by the end of 2022, but so far has not made any commitments on gas. The US has placed an embargo on all Russian energy products. The restrictions on Russian energy are designed to punish Moscow for invading Ukraine.  But rising global oil and gas prices mean that Russian profits could have risen in recent months, despite a reduction in the overall supply. “The volume of oil is decreasing on the world market, prices are rising,” President Putin told a group of young entrepreneurs. “Company profits are rising,” he added. That idea was echoed on Thursday by US energy security envoy Amos Hochstein. Asked at a Senate hearing if Russia could be earning more now from fossil fuels than it was before the war, Mr Hochman replied “I can’t deny that”. The Russian president was speaking on Thursday after attending an exhibition in Moscow dedicated to the 350th anniversary of the birth of Russian monarch Peter the Great. The 18th Century ruler fought a long territorial war against Sweden, which Putin appeared to compare to his invasion of Ukraine. “You get the impression that by fighting Sweden he was grabbing something. He wasn’t taking anything, he was taking it back,” he told his young audience. “It is our responsibility also to take back and strengthen,” he said, in an apparent reference to Ukraine.# YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.