Georgia-based Nigerian singer and songwriter, Precious Imhansi Jacob, also known as PTOD has talked up his new single, Superstar, saying with the song, he’s gearing up to become one of the most sorts after musical exports from Africa. According to the singer, Superstar is a groovy song that will get anyone moving and dancing and he also encouraged his fans to get behind the song and raise its numbers on music streaming platforms. Speaking about his other interest outside of music, PTOD who has Masters Degree in Biology from the University of Georgia stated that growing up in Warri, Delta State shaped his music career and prepared him for the big moments ahead of him. With three singles to his credit, he hinted that he has always had a passion for, insisting that music is something he cannot do without. With the fast-growing music industry, PTOD said he wants to raise his music game to heights that would make it difficult for anyone to resist his voice. “I want to be the next biggest name in the music industry and it is already happening. With the good numbers my songs rake in in terms of streams and attention, it won’t be too long before my name and sound take over the music industry in Nigeria and beyond,” he enthused. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…  PTOD new single Superstar…  Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…  PTOD new single Superstar… How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her…  PTOD new single Superstar… 