NIGERIANS have been advised to regularly check their health status to prevent sudden death. The amir of a faith-based charity organisation, Faith Unites Muslims Charity Initiative (FUMCI), Ustadh Abdul-Muiz Zubayr, gave the advice at this year’s edition of the organisation’s annual free medical screening on the three deadly ailments, hypertension, diabetes and malaria, with free drugs, held in Lagos on Sunday. Speaking on the discoveries by medical personnel during the exercise, Zubayr said many participants were not aware of their health status. According to him, many of them are time bomb waiting to explode as their blood pressure and blood sugar level are far above the normal range. He said: “The checkup is aimed at facilitating prompt medical intervention for residents in Lagos Mainland in order to prevent untimely death. “FUMCI has been at the forefront of organising free medical screening for the residents of Lagos Mainland Local Government Area as part of its corporate social responsibility.  “Over the years, we have observed that it is only in a stable state of mind and body that a worshipper can serve their Creator. “And considering the level of the economic hardship in the country, we felt the need to provide medical screening with free drugs for patients suffering from malaria, diabetes and hypertension. “So, going by the discoveries by the medical team, we are glad that we were able to intervene in our own little way.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FUMCI advises Nigerians  FUMCI advises Nigerians Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FUMCI advises Nigerians  FUMCI advises Nigerians Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.