THE Muslim Association of Nigeria (MAN), Ibadan branch, last weekend, celebrated two of its elderly members, Chief Mustapha Adebayo Oyero and Alhaji Kola Animasahun, who attained the age of 80 and 71, respectively, in the month of May. At an event held in their honour at MAN Islamic Centre, Oke Ado, the branch chairman, Alhaji Abdur-Rahman Abdul Ganiy, described the duo as respected members who have demonstrated uncommon commitment to the association over the years. Abdul Ganiy, who noted that it was part of the culture of the association to celebrate its members on their birthdays, expressed gratitude to Allah for the lives of Oyero, a member of the Board of Trustees of the association and chairman of the Ibadan Muslim Community, and Animasahun, a seasoned journalist and former chairman of the League of Veteran Journalists in Oyo State. He acknowledged the “enormous contributions” of the honorees to the development of Islam and mankind and encouraged other members to take a cue from them. Other dignitaries present at the occasion included the wives of the honorees, Alhaja Sururoh Oyero and Alhaja N.O. Animasahun; Professor Asif Folarin Ahmad, Alhaji Amidu Adedokun, Chief Saheed Oyero and Mr Eniola Oyero. A special prayer, led by MAN missioner, Ibadan branch, Alhaji A.A. Amuzat, was offered for the celebrants. The missioner and other clerics at the event prayed for good health and prosperous long lives for the celebrants.  Highlights of the event included recitations from the Holy Qur’an by students of the Muslim Model College, Ibadan, and Islamic waka music rendition by members of the women’s wing of the association. The chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Amidu Adedokun, recalled that the programme was the brainchild of one of the celebrants, Chief Oyero, some years ago. While presenting birthday gifts to the celebrants on behalf of the association, Adedokun advised other members to also come up with laudable inovations. The celebrants, in separate remarks, thanked Allah for filling their lives with blessings, expressed gratitude to MAN for the honour accorded them and promised to do more to support Islam through the association. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…MAN celebrates Oyero  MAN celebrates Oyero Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…MAN celebrates Oyero MAN celebrates Oyero Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.