Members of Ogbomoso Recreation Club have commended the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Oyo State for the choice of governor Seyi Makinde, to hoist the flag of the party during next year’s governorship election in the state. The club, in a congratulatory letter signed by its President, Dr Akin Oladeji Johnbrown, and addressed to the governor, heaped praise on members of PDP in Oyo State for their resolve to allow governor Makinde to seek a second term in office on the platform of the party. While congratulating governor Makinde on picking the party’s ticket, the club noted that: “Ogbomoso Recreation Club as a social Club for sons and daughters of Ogbomoso regard your victory during the party primary election as recognition of your progressive ideals to provide the leadership required for Oyo State being a pace setter. “We, therefore, wish you the best in the next phase of the rigorous political campaign and be rest assured of our support for your aspirations and the ideals that will make Oyo State a force to reckon with among the comity of states in Nigeria.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG  NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… 