It is a double celebration for popular Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels and her husband, Ned Nwoko, as the couple welcomed their second child on their first child’s birthday. The billionaire businessman earlier today took to his Instagram page to announce the arrival of their second child on the same day they celebrated their first child’s birthday. ”It’s a Double celebration today for the family as Moon turns Two years. He’s growing every day looking forward to the future with so much Enthusiasm. Happy birthday, Son,” he wrote. “It’s also a delight to announce the arrival of our second son today. Regina and the baby are doing very well in Amman Jordan. Uniquely moon and his baby brother now share the same birth date. The family is over the Moon@princemunirnwoko @regina.daniels.” They welcomed their first child together back in June 2020. Nwoko and Daniels got married in 2019. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  