Gunmen suspected to be armed bandits have invaded Furfuri town of Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara State and abducted 23 persons including two wives and three children of the former Accountant General in the state. It was gathered that the armed bandits stormed and attacked Furfuri town which is 7 km away from Gusau, the state capital, late Sunday night and kidnapped many people. A source from Furfuri town, Mallam Sani, explained that the gunmen abducted two wives of the former Accountant General of the state, Abubakar Bello Furfuri, his three children and 18 other persons. “In one of the houses, they invaded, they whisked away many people,” the source revealed. According to the source, Military operatives were reported to have been deployed to the town immediately. “Two Hilux vans loaded with soldiers were deployed in the village but before they arrived the bandits had left.”  When contacted the spokesperson of the state command, SP Shehu Mohammed, confirmed the incident, adding that police has since swung into action. He said as a result of security intensified efforts, some of the kidnapped victims were rescued immediately. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Bandits kidnap 2 wives, 3 children of former Zamfara AG, 18 others Bandits kidnap 2 wives, 3 children of former Zamfara AG, 18 others Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.