In order to be truly successful, promotional items need to check a few boxes. For one, they have to be practical and useful, as people have no reason to keep something that has no purpose. Next, a great promo product offers just enough branding area to accommodate most logos and designs. In addition, the products are also visually appealing. As such, they are supposed to help a brand stand out from all the others in a particular industry. Even more importantly, good marketing products are affordable but still able to entice people to shop from a certain brand. Unfortunately, not many promo items fit into all of these categories. There is usually at least one thing missing, making you question whether investing in a certain product is truly worth it. However, there are also promo items that strike the perfect balance between practicality, affordability, and appeal. Research carried out by industry leaders GoPromotional, water bottles are among the best of them. No matter what time of the year it is, drinking enough water is essential for staying healthy. However, many people simply forget to bring water with them when they go outside. In addition, they might not have time or money to buy a bottle when that happens. Luckily, there is a great alternative. If they buy or are given an insulated bottle, they will be able to have fresh water ready at all times. What’s more, the bottle will keep the water at a preferred temperature all day long. The insulation method used on the botles is quite simple but entirely brilliant. Namely, surrounding the walls of the bottle with a vacuum prevents the heat from both entering and leaving the container. So, when people pour water into the bottle, it will retain its temperature for at least 12 hours. That gives them the chance to stay hydrated and drink water exactly the way they like it throughout the day. Another important feature of these bottles is their sustainability. Namely, if a person has one of these bottles at hand, they don’t have to buy bottled water every day. That, in turn, reduces plastic pollution, which is one of the leading causes of global warming.  As you probably already know, promo items have to be pretty in order to appeal to your customers and employees. Fortunately, there are endless customisation possibilities you can go for when it comes to water bottles. For example, you can pick between different colours and sizes. The two most important criteria which will determine your customisation options are your budget and your employee and customers’ preferences. That way, you will be making the best decision for your brand. Of course, you also have a chance to add a specific design to the bottles. It is smart to include pictures and drawings along with your logo, as that will make the bottles more appealing. Again, you should choose these designs with your audience in mind. If you’re trying to target younger people, a more catchy and bright bottle will do the trick. But if you want to appeal to the older generations, a more minimalistic and uni-coloured product will probably be more successful. Either way, it is essential to think about who the campaign is for and what you want to achieve with it. Answer these questions, and coming up with a fantastic design will be effortless. If you think that vacuum insulated water bottles are just what you need to take your campaign up notch, give GoPromotional a call. Together, we can make a detailed marketing plan that will benefit your business for years to come. 