The show max original Nigerian series is set to return to the screen again. This was revealed by co-Executive Producer Darey Art Alade via his tweeter handles. According to him, episodes of the Reunion show will launch on Showmax two weeks after season one wrapped on Friday, June 17. “Thank y’all for watching and riding the #RHOLagos wave! We really appreciate the comments, feedback, criticisms, reviews, shares etc. “Shouts to the entire cast, crew and our fabulous housewives who made the season sizzle. Reunion episodes beckon in 2 weeks. WATCHOUT,” Darey wrote in a tweet. While details of the anticipated Reunion show remain sketchy, there are unconfirmed reports that suggest that the show will be hosted by popular media personality Uti Nwachukwu. The reality took centre stage on the screen for 12 weeks with the dramatic friendship of six celebrity Housewives – Toyin Lawani, Iyabo Ojo, Mariam Timmer, Laura Ikeji, Caroline Danjuma, and Chioma Goodhair. Since season one’s finale, some of the Housewives have hinted at the show returning for a second season. RHOL, produced by Darey and Deola Art Alade’s Livespot 360, launched in April as Showmax’s third Nigerian Original series.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Real Housewives of Lagos set to return for a Reunion show Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Real Housewives of Lagos set to return for a Reunion show Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Real Housewives of Lagos set to return for a Reunion show 