Two FNC assault rifles have been recovered when a combined team of policemen and soldiers carried out an intensive raid in Ugboren community in the Sapele local government area of Delta State including their shrine. Two suspects were arrested during the raid. The raid followed the restiveness in the oil-producing community over leadership tussle. A statement issued by the state police public relations officer DSP Bright Edafe on Friday said measures have been put in place to forestall any further breakdown of law and order in the area. Meanwhile, the anti-crime patrol team attached to the Ibusa division while on routine patrol in conjunction with Ibusa anti-cult volunteers, arrested one Ekene Okonji alias “galaxy”. The police described him as a notorious criminal known for terrorizing Ibusa community and its environs.  The statement added that upon searching the suspect, one locally-made cut-to-size short gun, and seven live cartridges were recovered adding that the suspect is currently in custody. Also, the police have arrested six suspected cultists along Asaba – Benin Expressway in Okpanam, near Asaba. The suspects include Sunday Okafor Destiny, Stephen Osamota Pius and four others. One locally-made cut-to-size double barrel gun, six expended cartridges and one 9mm live ammunition were recovered from them. The suspects were said to have, on sighting the police team, taken to their heels but were chased and in the process arrested the suspects. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police raid shrine  Police raid shrine Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police raid shrine  Police raid shrine Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.