Organisers of the annual Abuja International Housing Show (AIHS) have called on Investors to tap into huge benefits of the Nigeria’s real estate sector. Giving the charge, the Chief Promoter of the show, Mr Festus Adebayo, described Nigeria as a nation blessed with both human and natural resources, pointing out that the country remains a viable hub real estate’s investment in Africa. According to him, Africa’s growing economies are critical to global economic development and progress, explained that investors with demand-oriented business strategies could approach Nigeria to capitalize on the country’s increasing middle class. He stated that the nation offers exciting retail and distribution business opportunities. According to him, Nigeria’s unexplored resources have the potential to revitalise the economy of African continent. “As a result, the commercial world may benefit from Africa’s underutilised markets, human and natural resources,” he said.  For instance, he pointed out that Nigeria, Algeria and Senegal have the most natural gas on the continent, with over 800 trillion cubic feet. According to him, estimates have shown that natural gas production on the continent would increase by 80 per cent by 2035, adding that that Africa is well-endowed with other natural resources. Speaking on the quality of the workforce, he revealed that Africa, especially Nigeria, has a big youth population, giving it a potential labor benefit for investors. “More than 60% of Nigeria’s population is under the age of 25. That’s to tell you that Africa’s youth population has a chance for considerable economic transformation and growth. Nigeria is the most populated African country, with a population of approximately 206 million people. Investors might take advantage of the population to create a huge workforce for lucrative prospects”, he said. Urging prospective investors to take advantage of the forthcoming 16th edition of the AIHS housing and construction expo scheduled holding between July 25 and 28, 2022, Adebayo said the event would position and equip them with relevant information, guide and strategies to navigate and explore opportunities in the nation’s real estate sector. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.