The capital city of Oyo State, Ibadan, was agog as well-meaning personalities, politicians, and bureaucrats stormed Ibadan for the celebration of the Director-General, Oyo State Gaming Board, Olajide Boladuro. The celebrant, Boladuro who clocked 50 was joined by the Onikate of Ikateland, Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, and his Olori Sekinat Elegushi, the Oyo State Speaker, Rt. Hon. Adebowale Ogundoyin, and various Commissioners of the Oyo cabinet. During the course of the celebration, Boladuro noted, “the special grace one could ask God Almighty is to live long in good health and wealth. I’m entering the second half of a century now and I really appreciate God for his mercy and continuous grace.” Oba Elegushi, while speaking at the event said, “Boladuro has been my friend for a very long time and he is one of the few people that possess good sacrifice in delivering his service for Humanity.” The party which held at the manhattan Hall, Jericho Ibadan on Friday, 17th June was also graced by Lagos State Head of Service Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola, The Oba Olugbon,  Oba Francis Olushola Alao, Senator Olalekan Mustapha, The Akinsiku of Lagos Oba Dosumu, Commissioner of Health Ogun State MrsTomi Coker, The DG OYSADA, Mr Debo Akande, Chairman Ledco Company Otunba AJ Odunowo, Friends of the Governor, Mr Peter Eledan, Alhaji Femi Omotayo, Mr Yinka Owodunni, Mr Tunde Tijani. Others included Executive Assistant to the Governor on Disability matters Barrister Ayodele Adekanbi Chairman Oyo State Civil Service Commission, Alhaji Aderibigbe, DG OYSIPPA, MS Omolala Olutola and his numerous diaspora friends; UK, USA, and Canada, but to mention a few. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  