Twenty-five people have been treated for burns in northern Switzerland after they walked across hot coals as part of a team-building exercise. Thirteen of them were taken to hospital and treated for more severe injuries after the incident on Tuesday evening. A large emergency response, including 10 ambulances, arrived at the private event at around 18:00 (16:00 GMT). The group walked over a bed of coals that was several metres long and felt pain shortly after, police said. It is not yet clear if there was an issue with the set-up of the coals or with how the group walked across them. Officials have opened an investigation and taken evidence from the site, which is in the Au peninsular just south of the city of Zurich. Walking across a bed of hot coals, often known as fire-walking, is sometimes used in motivational courses and charity events. It involves walking barefoot over a bed of hot embers or coals. It is also used in many parts of the world as a rite of passage or test. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “YOV is a coalition of about 23 different organisations spreading across the six continents of the world. The diaspora organization was established two years ago, purposely to seek restructuring to regionalism in Nigeria or self-determination from the Nigerian nation. “Since its inception in 2020, YOV has been resolute in championing the cause for self-determination, with clear-cut ideology and values that are centred on proper and enduring organisational ethics. “YOV’s structure and hierarchy are based on collegiate leadership. It can’t have a president because every affiliate organization under this coalition arrangement has its president. “So, the idea of arrogating to oneself the sensitive position of a president of the coalition is not only being acting as an impostor, but it is also being at variance with the inherent ideology of the Yoruba diaspora organisation,” he said. Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira We’re committed to Yoruba liberation struggle, says YOV 