A High Court sitting in Akure, Ondo state capital, on Friday, sentenced three of the four persons involved in the killing of the daughter of the Afenifere leader, Funke Olakurin to death by hanging. Justice Williams Olamide, however, discharged and acquitted one of the accused who is the Public Relations Officer of Miyetti Allah, Auwàla Abubakar. Olufunke Olakuri, daughter of Afenifere Leader, Reuben Fasoranti was shot dead in June 2019 by gunmen along Ore, in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State, while returning to Lagos from Akure. She was buried a few weeks after her gruesome murder while the accused were arrested and arraigned, some six months after her death. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Killers of Fasoranti’s daughter to die by hanging Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Killers of Fasoranti’s daughter to die by hanging Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Killers of Fasoranti’s daughter to die by hanging Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…Killers of Fasoranti’s daughter to die by hanging USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.