Time Management, according to Brian Tracy, is personal management, life management and management of yourself. A lot of people deal with poor time management, and as a result, find themselves being a perfectionist, forgetting their vision, scheduling tasks ineffectively, not having a regular time review, not being able to cope with stress, poorly delivering their task, experiencing lack of productivity and lots more. Time is an important factor that a person cannot do without. People literally have to deal with doing more than one thing with time in check. There’s the need to understand how important time management is, and how to use it to your gain, and for your productivity. A lot of people have to deal with time management while dealing with procrastination, work, sleep, and many other things demanding their time. What is time management? According to Mind Tools, time management is the process of organising and planning how to divide your time between different activities. Get it right, and you’ll end up working smarter, not harder, to get more work done in less time – even when time is tight and pressures are high.  It is the process of planning and organising how your time will be spent amidst other activities in order to increase productivity, effectiveness and efficiency. Why is time management important? IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How then do you use time management to your advantage? When setting your goals ensure that they are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound. Your goals should be detailed. It should contain what needs to be done, how it should be done, and when it should be done. Don’t map them in your mind, learn to write them down with a pen and paper, or on your device, just make sure it is written down. Here’s a guideline on how to determine what’s important and what’s urgent for time management  This can be hard sometimes to do, but it’s possible.  If you have a specific time allotted to an important task, and a person comes with an offer that does not match your goals, you have the right to say NO. You should only take the offer if you have thought carefully about it and you think you can deal with it.  Only respond, after you’ve carefully thought about it. Don’t say yes and regret it, like wise don’t say no and regret it. This will help you stay focused and more efficient. It helps you detect possible problems that could arise at a later time and help you proffer solution in advance. Take breaks in between to stay focused and motivated. What do you do with the breaks? Clear your head, eat, take a nap, go for a walk, catch up on random things and lots more. Do not avoid delegation. If you do, it would wear you out and stress you. And this could lead to less productivity. Outsource help for the things you don’t necessarily have to do yourself. Not everyone can do well with performing more than one task that’s why it’s important to set time limits for each task.  What happens when you don’t use time management to your advantage. Reference: Use Time Management  Use Time Management  Use Time Management  Use Time Management  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.