Fulanis from 16 West African countries on Thursday converged on Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. Their convergence forms part of the ongoing two-day First Interactive Policy Dialogue and Cultural Festival organised by the Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, a Fulani socio-cultural association. The festival with the theme, “The Future of Fulani Pastoralists in Nigeria” took place at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The event had Fulanis from 16 West African countries as delegates. Earlier today,Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore first Interactive Dialogue and Cultural Festival held at Hilton Hotel Abuja.Theme;The future of Fulani Pastoralists in Nigeria. pic.twitter.com/yHD7nrY1rN — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) June 2, 2022   In his opening remarks at the event, the National President of the association, Alhaji Bello Abdullahi Bodejo, said the gathering “is meant to find lasting solutions to issues of insecurity confronting Nigeria, with a view to having a meeting with Fulani in 16 neighbouring countries, to know whether in the insecurity situation in Nigeria is also affecting them. “If they aren’t affected, why is that Nigeria is passing through this? We will also go to the Niger Republic. We would also go to the forests to meet and find out what is actually happening. “There are 16 delegates from 16 neighbouring countries. After this summit, we will come out with a paper on the way forward.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…