Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s statement that it is Yoruba’s turn to produce the next president is correct.  He publicly spoke his mind in Abeokuta without minding whose ox is gored on June 2, 2022 while addressing the delegates that it was the turn of the Southwest to produce the next president of Nigeria come 2023. Tinubu is a vibrant who has used his good position to touch many lives. Those who have benefited from the good deeds of senator Tinubu can testify to this. We all witnessed what happened during the just concluded PDP presidential primary where Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal was constrained to step down for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to defeat Nyesom Wike. The rest is history. In a sense, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is not wrong to speak up the mind of many Yorubas. He has been living a good life that is infinitely more satisfying and encouraging considering everything he has been doing politically to support people when they badly need his help. He is an illustrious son of Yoruba land. If people who helped me get to where I am today go out tomorrow and begin to tell the public about what they did for me, I will not get angry with him because Allah used them to give me hope and life and that is how I became a legal practitioner today. No one is perfect except Allah. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a man of many parts. He is absolutely correct to say that power should return to Southwest for the sake of unity. Barrister Jimoh Mumin,  Ibadan YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.