• Born over fifty years ago to the House of Gureje-Thompson of Eti-Oni, Osun State, Nigeria. • He had his primary and secondary education at Ireti Primary School, Ikoyi, Lagos and the prestigious King’s College, Lagos. He proceeded to the University of Ibadan, where he obtained a BSc. degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1990. • His Royal Majesty Oba Dokun Thompson Gureje IV, the Oloni of Eti-Oni, Osun State, is a unique monarch, a lover of Christ and a devout Christian. History was made on Sunday, 7 December, 2008 when he became the first traditional ruler in Nigeria to be installed inside the church according to the scriptures with the pouring of oil over his head and the adorning of the traditional beads and staff by priests of the Anglican Communion, Christ Apostolic Church and The Apostolic Faith Mission. • He is Chairman, Eti-Oni Development Group, the organisers of The Cocoa Festival in Nigeria which he founded in 2014 with the main objective of creating a renaissance in the Nigerian Cocoa Industry and also transform the rural community of Eti-Oni into a sustainable model smart town. He also founded Eko Chocolate Show (the biggest show dedicated to chocolate and confectionery in Africa), Royal Cocoa Festival Dinner in London (a platform for cultural exchange, collaboration, exchange of ideas and developing partnerships towards building the bridge between cocoa production and consumption) and co-founded with his Olori, Royal Cocoa International Film Festivals, RCIFF which was launched on 25th November 2021 by the Governor of Osun State. • Oba Dokun Thompson Gureje IV is a family man with children and married to a beautiful woman, Queen Angelique-Monet Gureje-Thompson. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.