Former Senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial zone, Senator Victor Umeh has won the ticket of the Labour Party (LP) to contest the 2023 election. Umeh had earlier today notified of his joining Labour Party from All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), and also stood for the primary election of the party. The returning officer in the election, Hon Pat Nky Obi while declaring the result said: “We have just one candidate, Senator Victor Umeh, and we have 32 accredited delegates. “At the end of the election, we have a total of 32 valid votes, and I hereby declare Senator Victor Umeh the winner of the election, having scored all 32 votes.” Umeh in his acceptance speech said: “I thank all of you who voted for me to stand for this election on your behalf. I’m very happy that Labour Party has offered me the opportunity to continue to defend our people. “At this point of our nation’s history, it is very important that I go to the Senate and represent our people. I have been there before and our people saw what I was able to do.  “Labour Party will afford me the opportunity to reunite with my brother Peter Obi again. He called me last Saturday to commiserate with me on my loss of the APGA ticket and asked me to join Labour Party and let’s team up and work together. “I immediately resigned from my party on 30th and registered in Labour Party on 31st of May. I will put all my weight and ensure we win. I’m coming from a progressive party, and I have entered another progressive party. “It has been my dream to have an Igbo man as president and Labour Party joined in that thought and elected an Igbo man as its candidate. I will follow him, campaign for him and make sure that all the candidate of the labour party wins. “I and Obi have partnered before and we were able to do exploits in politics, and we will do even more exploits this time. This is a divine effort and we will win. We have consulted widely and many stakeholders have asked me to join hands with Peter Obi to contest this election. “We have decided to put our differences apart and work not just for the good of Anambra but Igboland and Nigeria. He (Obi) is the man who can truly turn Nigeria from a consumption economy to a production economy. My brother Peter can also save for this country because I know what he can do. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants 2023: Umeh picks Labour Party Senate ticket, pledges to work with Peter Obi MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba 2023: Umeh picks Labour Party Senate ticket, pledges to work with Peter Obi Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.