Some gunmen on Sunday morning attacked St. Francis  Catholic Church in Owo, headquaters of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, killing members of the congregation during the church service. It was gathered that some corpses had been moved out of the church with many  casualties lying at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, for medical attention. A source explained that some gunmen invaded the church during service and opened fire on the members of the church, killing some of them. He explained that the worshippers were caught unaware, adding the casualty might be more as some worshippers had been rushed to the hospital. He added that the gunmen also used some explosives within the compound of the church but said most of the people were hit with gunshots. The perpetrators were said to have fled the scene immediately after carrying  out the killing, leaving many people dead.  A nurse at Owo who spoke to Tribune Online on condition of anonymity said not many medical personnel were on ground  to attend to the casualties at the emergency unit of the hospital. Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.