A civil society organisation, Adopt A Goal Initiative, has called on the Police and National Peace Committee (NPC) to adopt and enforce the campaign against vote-buying in their electoral initiatives ahead of the Ekiti Governorship election. The group, in a statement in Ado Ekiti, signed by its Executive Director, Ariyo-Dare Atoye described vote trafficking as the biggest obstacle to credible and peaceful elections since the introduction of electronic transmission of results by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which has made results manipulations difficult. The CSO, however, commended the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba, for establishing the electoral offences desk, describing it as a strategic intervention that must be enforced to deter election triggers, starting from Ekiti. The group said, “We urge Gen Abdulsalami Abubakar-led NPC and the IGP to pay special attention to the electoral disease called vote-buying ahead of the Ekiti election. “Vote Trading is an invasive disease threatening the credibility and peace of our elections, and we must work vigorously to fight and eradicate it. “The idea of exchanging votes for money which characterised previous elections had seriously undermined the social contract between the people and elected officials.  “Sadly, the crime of vote-buying and selling has reduced the electorate to electoral slavery and brought untold hardship to the masses. “We urge the Police and Peace Committee to see the challenge of vote-buying as a threat to national security, which must be urgently addressed to salvage this democracy. “The Ekiti Governorship election provides a veritable opportunity to make a bold statement and enforcement against vote trafficking ahead of the 2023 general election,” the statement added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Ekiti 2022: Adopt campaign against vote-buying, group tells Abdulsalami’s peace committee Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Ekiti 2022: Adopt campaign against vote-buying, group tells Abdulsalami’s peace committee Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Ekiti 2022: Adopt campaign against vote-buying, group tells Abdulsalami’s peace committee USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.