In recent times, businesses have perceived customers to have this entitlement mentality that makes them feel they are worthy or deserving of certain things that the business shouldn’t offer in the first place. The entitlement mentality is defined as a person feeling that they deserve something or someone owes them something especially when they have not worked or they have done nothing to deserve it. These people go about making it look like you owe them something especially when you don’t. Research shows that the motto “The customer is always right” can be traced to successful retailers named Harry Gordon Selfridge, John Wanamaker and Marshall Field. Research also shows that this motto came as a result of ensuring that the complaints and satisfaction of customers were prioritised and to ensure that they were safe from deception and being cheated. However, in recent times, customers are perceived to use this motto to their selfish advantage. They try to hide under the disguise of this motto to make demands that are not called for, or treat the business they are patronizing with disrespect with the mental assurance that they will get away with it. This is so wrong. The subject, Commerce, explains that consumers are kings and should be treated as such. However, these customers are using the “crown” in an unacceptable manner. Every business owner has in one way or another have met customers with entitlement mentality. They can be a thorn in the flesh and hide under the guise of “customers are always right” to trouble you for no reason and sometimes disrespect you thinking that they will get away with it. They don’t care about what you think. They just want their demands to be fulfilled at all cost even if you’d run at loss. They are the ones who would compare you with other businesses that are doing them the favors that you couldn’t. For example, offering discounts, giving them more than they paid for, under paying for product bought or services received and the list goes on and on.  They rudely ask for a reduction in price of hoods or services and express anger because they didn’t get what they asked for. What do you do as a business owner handling customers with entitlement mentality? Having many customers enter your DM to say silly things and insult you can make you frustrated. Keep calm, and don’t lose your sanity and lash out on them. That would make things worse. And remember to politely tell them off if you cannot give in to their demands or handle their tantrums.     IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE entitlement mentality of customers  entitlement mentality of customers  entitlement mentality of customers