The Supreme Court of Nigeria on Friday struck out a suit filed by President Muhammad Buhari and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN), challenging Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act. A seven-member panel of justices of the apex court, led by Musa Dattijo-Muhammad, unanimously struck out the suit for being an abuse of court process. Justice Aokmaye Agim, who delivered the lead judgement, held that Buhari, having earlier assented to Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022, cannot turn around to approach the court to strike it down. According to the judgement, “There is no provision in the constitution that vests the president the power to challenge the constitutionality or desirability of a legislation after he has assented or denied his assent” and added that, the president has given his assent to the Act. He added that the request by  Buhari to the National Assembly to delete the provision amounted to constitutional violation and held that the suit was a ploy by the President to get the court to validate the violation. “The president has no power to request or compel the national assembly to amend any part of the Act of the National Assembly in which he has participated in its making,“ he added. More to come.… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira  In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… Lunatics Have Taken Over Affairs Of Nigeria ― Obi The presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has decried that lunatics have taken over leadership positions in the country and have held the country to ransom. Obi also said that over 70 per cent of politicians in Nigeria today should not be in politics and need to be flushed out.  