Anambra State Government has said it will plant no fewer than one million trees to promote aforestation and check environmental degradation ravaging the state. The State Commissioner for Environment, Engr. Felix Odimegwu, disclosed this at the weekend, during a press conference to mark this year’s World Environment Day. He said the State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo was expected to start off the campaign on Sunday. While describing the theme for this year’s celebration “Only One Earth” as apt, he said under the policy each household would be expected to plant at least two trees every year. He said, “Anambra State is facing serious environmental health degradation, and serious climate change challenges. This is the time to take up the collective and individual responsibility of protecting, and restoring our only ‘one earth’ by avoiding actions leading to environmental pollution and degradation. “I, therefore, call on the people to leverage the opportunity offered by the theme to raise their consciousness towards adopting safe environmental management practices and good sanitation that will promote the general wellbeing of all of us.”  The Commissioner said the government would introduce Environmental Marshalls in communities across the state to reinforce sensitization and enforcement of environmental laws to affect the healthy living. He noted that the present administration would partner with private corporations in the area of waste recycling to create jobs and reduce the burden of waste disposal, even as he said the monthly sanitation exercise would be strengthened to ensure maximum compliance. Also speaking, the State Coordinator, Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP), Micheal Ivenso, stated that an environmental sustainability and control manual had been created to enlighten the public on the need to respect physical planning laws, calling on them to take ownership of their environment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… World Environment Day: Soludo targets planting of one million trees in Anambra Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG World Environment Day: Soludo targets planting of one million trees in Anambra Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.