The rising pressure on ecosystems could be leading to the spread of monkeypox infections to humans, World Health Organisation (WHO) expert Mike Ryan said on Wednesday. “We’re dealing with the animal-human interface being quite instable,’’ said Ryan in Geneva. However, other diseases originating in animals such as Lassa fever and Ebola were also increasingly spreading to humans. In the last several weeks, the UN agency had recorded over 550 cases of monkeypox in 30 countries where the virus is not usually found. These numbers do not contain infections in the African countries where the virus is considered endemic. Carriers of the monkeypox include various primates and rodents.  The latest wave of infections, reported largely in Western countries, appears, however, to show human-to-human transmission. “We don’t really know whether it’s too late to contain,’’ said WHO expert, Rosamund Lewis about the virus. However, she was optimistic that its spread could be curtailed with conventional hygiene measures.(dpa/NAN) YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. WHO records over 550 monkeypox cases, suspects environmental factors