Organisers of the Make Music Lagos has announced that the 2022 edition will kickoff across Lagos and other Nigerian cities (Abuja, Uyo, Ibadan, Owerri & Ado-Ekiti) on 16th June and run till 26th June 2022 with a host of FREE Concerts, Open Mic Nights and other exciting free music-related events to electrify music fans. The announcement was made in Lagos on Thursday at a press conference organized by Make Music Nigeria, the organization saddled with the responsibility of overseeing Make Music Day celebrations in Nigeria. The event, which are held in commemoration of the World Music Day (21st June), is now in its 7th consecutive year in Nigeria, and promises to be extraspecial as it also marks the 40thanniversary of the establishment of the global celebration which was first celebrated as Fête de la Musique in Paris in 1982 under the direction Jack Lang (then Minister of Culture of France) and Maurice Fleuret. Team Lead, Make Music Nigeria, Adeola Akinyemi had this to say: “Early in the year, we promised a scaled-up version of the Make Music Day celebration for 2022 and we are excited to be able to deliver on our promise with these landmark celebrations. Our desire is to deliver unforgettable experiences and boost the music culture in Nigeria and the rest of Africa so I encourage fans and industry insiders not to miss out on the events this year. “Fans can expect a packed roster of Make Music Concerts across major locations through the period of celebrations. The biggest concert (and event), as usual, is the Shutdown Concert on 26th June at Muri Okunola Park, Victoria Island (Lagos) which would have Johnny Drille, Magixx, Cavemen, Helen Ibe, Mike Abdul, and Sunkey Daniels performing. “Gospel fans can look forward to an inspiring time of worship with Folabi Nuel, Tosinbee, Jodeep, IBK, Anendlessocean on Sunday 19th June at the Make Music Pop Up Worship events at Harvesters Church (Anthony, Lagos) and Insight Bible Church (Uyo, Akwa Ibom). And if you fancy testing out your vocals, then you can make your way to any of the two (2) Make Music Open Mic Nights in the Yaba area of Lagos on21st June.  “Those looking to develop themselves as music industry players or professionals, would want to check out the Learn to Play, Learn to DJ and the Music Business Conference events which offer opportunities to network, learn and gain valuable knowledge and insights. “Other opportunities for industry development and networking are the Songwriting Bootcamp to be hosted by TYbello and NOSA at the Kairos Hub on 18th June, and the Artiste Development Bootcamp to be hosted by ‘The House by Primero New Label Company Ltd’ on 22nd June.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.