Whether you plan to spend this Friday chilling indoors or partying outdoors with friends, Valvin has got the perfect soundtrack for a good time. Out now on all streaming platforms is ‘It’s Friday’, a mid-tempo Afroswingbanger by the creative genius of Valvin with assistance from Baeken. Using a lethal combination of infectious melodies and smooth lyrics, Valvin is inviting us all to get loose, relax and have some much needed fun. Valvin officially launched his music career in August 2021 when he released ‘No Worry’ in the company of BNXN. The Millaboy Music Group artiste garnered over 50,000 streams for the Afrobeats track. On the background of that success, he followed up with ‘Tonight’ 4 months later and is now giving us this spanking new tune ‘It’s Friday’ for the weekend vibes. This new track is also the first taste of his forthcoming debut EP “Sound Not Found”, so now is the best time to get on Valvin’s refreshing wave. Stream “It’s Friday” on your favourite platform today. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.