The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Muhammad Fadah, on Thursday sought stakeholders’ sustained support for the actualisation of a trust fund for the Scheme. He spoke at the opening ceremony of the 2022 Batch ‘B’ Pre Orientation Workshop, with the theme; “Repositioning the Critical Components of the Orientation Course Content to Address Prevailing Challenges”, held in Abuja. The DG who expressed hope that the Trust Fund bill would soon be consented to by the Senate said already, that it has been passed by the House of Representatives. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “I am confident that it would not be long before the Senate gives its concurrence and therefore appeal for the sustained support of all stakeholders for its actualization,” the DG said.  He further expressed the Scheme’s readiness to conduct a successful 2022 Batch ‘B’ Orientation Course. He said despite the COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges of the operating environment, the Scheme has continued to conduct Orientation exercises successfully. Also, the Director, Planning, Research and Statistics, Alhaji Ahmed Wada Ikaka, in his introductory address, said the workshop would enable participants to review the previous orientation exercises, especially the challenges encountered as well as the best practices to enable improvements in subsequent orientation courses. He added that lectures in line with the theme of the workshop would be delivered by experienced resource persons, with a view to enriching the workshop content. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… NYSC DG seeks stakeholders’ sustained support for trust fund actualisation Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NYSC DG seeks stakeholders’ sustained support for trust fund actualisation