Inspector-General of Police IGP Usman Alkali Baba has presented cheques worth millions of naira to the next of kin of Eight deceased Police Officers who died while in active service in Zamfara state. The IGP who was represented by the Zamfara state commissioner of police Ayuba Elkana on Wednesday said that the presentation of the cheques was part of the IGP’s ongoing welfare scheme for the families of deceased Police officers. The Commissioner of Police while presenting the cheques to the next of kin, appreciated the Inspector General of Police for the gesture and described it as timely and will go a long way in alleviating suffering being faced by families of deceased Police officers. The CP further assured the IGP that, Officers and men of the Command will continue to put in their best to ensure more commitment and hard work in the discharge of their duty for sustained peace, security and safety of Zamfara State and Nigeria as a whole. He, therefore, charged the beneficiaries to utilize the money judiciously, noting that, in the last ten (10) months alone, the Command had received similar cheques from the Inspector General of Police nine (9) times which were presented to the beneficiaries. According to him, the gesture will serve as a morale booster for the serving members of the force in order to continue to discharge their primary assignment effectively.  One of the benefiting families, Fatima Murtala Baffa, who spoke on behalf of other beneficiaries thanked the Inspector General of Police for the gesture and promised to use the money judiciously. The Cheques presentation ceremony was witnessed by members of the Command management team and other heads of the department. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…IGP presents over N30m to families of deceased police officers in Zamfara Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…IGP presents over N30m to families of deceased police officers in Zamfara Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…IGP presents over N30m to families of deceased police officers in Zamfara USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.