Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, on Friday, said he is not an emperor by any chance and that the political seat he currently occupies is neither his family inheritance. Abiodun might apparently be reacting to comments made by the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, while addressing the State delegates, on Thursday, that he was instrumental to the emergence of Abiodun in the build-up to the 2019 general election. Tinubu said, “Look at this one seated behind me, Dapo, he wouldn’t have become governor without my support.” Abiodun in a tweet on Friday wrote, “I am not an emperor by any chance and this is not my family inheritance. “I am holding this position in trust for all the people of this state and I have vowed to be fair, just and equitable and this is the solemn agreement I made between the Almighty God and myself.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…I’m not an emperor  I’m not an emperor Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…I’m not an emperor  I’m not an emperor Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.