Access Bank Holdings Plc has said its wholly-owned subsidiary, Access Bank Plc has entered into a binding agreement with Centum Investment Company Plc for the acquisition of the entire 83.4 per cent equity stake held by Centum in Sidian Bank Limited. According to a statement sent to the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) and signed by Sunday Ekwochi, the Company Secretary, it was noted that the purchase consideration is approximately up to N15 billion ($37 million), representing a price to book multiple of 1.1x based on the audited 31 March 2022 shareholders equity of Sidian. With the acquisition, Sidian would be merged with Access Bank’s subsidiary in Kenya, Access Bank Kenya to create a stronger banking institution better positioned to serve the Kenya market. Speaking on the transaction, Mr Herbert Wigwe, the Group Chief Executive, Access Corporation said, “The growth transaction being implemented in Kenya represents the relentless focus and execution of our strategic objectives within our banking subsidiary even as we grow the other businesses within Access Corporation’s core segments. “The acquisition of Sidian is a significant step-up in scale and potential for Access Bank in Kenya which represents the largest market and trade corridor in East Africa. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “The significant increase in scale and customer base presents us with enormous opportunities to support growth in the various ecosystems we are building in our trade and payment business. The economies of scale that derive therefrom will continue to drive and enhance contributions to all stakeholders,” Wigwe said. Also, Mr Roosevelt Ogbonna, Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank said, “This transaction builds on our earlier acquisition of the former transactional Bank Plc (now Access Bank Kenya) and underscores our resolve to strengthen our presence in Kenya, a key African market that fits into our strategic focus for geographic earnings growth and diversification. “The acquisition and intended subsequent merger will create a strong and competitive balance sheet for Access Bank in Kenya, positioning us to be well placed to promote regional trade finance and other cross border banking services in the East African Community (EAC) and broader COMESA region. “The proposed combination with Access Bank Kenya would undoubtedly propel Access Bank into a strong contender in the Kenya market with enhanced capacity to play a more impactful role in the growth of its economy while delivering increased profitability for our shareholders,” Ogbonna said. How Gunmen Attacked Ondo Church Killing Over 50 During Mass Access Bank to acquire Centum’s 83.4% stake in Kenyan Bank in N15bn deal We Will Sanction Tinubu For Insulting Buhari ― Adamu, APC National Chairman Access Bank to acquire Centum’s 83.4% stake in Kenyan Bank in N15bn deal USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.