The presidential candidate and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu, travelled out of the country to Paris, France on Monday after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. This was disclosed by Tunde Rahman, a media aide to the APC presidential standard-bearer in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja. The statement further noted that the APC standard-bearer is expected back in the country shortly. “Earlier before his departure, he attended the public presentation of a book titled ‘Mr. Speaker’ and launch of the legislative mentoring initiative in commemoration of the 60th birthday of Speaker of House Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. “On June 8, Asiwaju Tinubu emerged the Presidential candidate of APC for the February 25, 2023 election at the party’s presidential primaries/national convention held at the Eagle Square, Abuja. “After the election, he immediately embarked on a series of thank you and reconciliation visits to those who contested against him at the party’s primaries including the seven aspirants who stepped down for him.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend.  Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs APC presidential candidate, Tinubu departs for France Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. APC presidential candidate, Tinubu departs for France 