FiberOne Broadband, Nigeria’s fibre broadband provider, has announced that it has rebranded. The new philosophy, themed: ‘A new way of life’ and visual identity takes effect on June 1, 2022. The company announced this in Lagos via a statement from Mr Lanre Ore, the Chief Executive Officer of the company. Ore explained that the “rebranding is to position the company as an entity embracing the growing realities of the internet-enabled world. The refreshed FiberOne is making life and living easier for Nigerians because we provide a service that connects individuals with the most important elements of life – work, play, family, business, etc. “In 2017, we started out to provide quality fibre to Nigerians at home and at work. We ensured that our products are truly unlimited and affordable. While we are still providing these, we have realised that our internet is enabling something much bigger and we have represented this through our new visual identity and its credo: a new way of life. Our new visual identity has transited the brand from a provider to an enabler, from a functional internet provider to an enabler of quality life and living. This brand overhaul is coming after five years of providing fibre-optic broadband to Nigerian homes and businesses. The company has also adopted a new logo which depicts the infusion of life and living as seen in the letter “O”. Speaking on how the rebrand will affect the customers, Mr Kenny Joda, Head, of Sales and Marketing, stated that, “the rebrand is coming at a time that Nigerians are expecting more from the internet.  The 5G network is expected to launch in Nigeria in August and that comes with higher expectations of speed, less latency and internet efficiency. “As a service provider, we have built capacity from all angles to deliver the best quality internet, better customer service, and affordable connectivity to our customers,” Joda added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.