ON Saturday, the electorate in Ekiti State will go to their respective polling units to elect a governor to pilot their affairs for the next four years. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), 16 political parties presented governorship candidates, including 14 males and two females, for the election. They include Reuben Famuyibo of the Accord Party (AP), Oluwole Oluyede of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Kemi Elebute Halle of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Biodun Oyebanji of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Olabisi Kolawole of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Ranti Ajayi of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), among others. This week, six of the candidates took part in a debate, articulating their plans for the state if elected into office. Ahead of the election, there has been tension, although admittedly not on the scale witnessed during previous elections. In particular, there have been skirmishes between supporters of the APC and the SDP candidates, with either side accusing the other of violence. In this regard, it is comforting that efforts have been made by stakeholders to stem possible violence in Saturday’s election. For instance, following the violence that recently broke out in Itaji Ekiti,  traditional rulers in the state converged on the palace of the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, for a peace parley with the governorship candidates, where they impressed upon them the need to eschew all forms of violence during Saturday’s election. In a statement worth its weight in gold, Oba Adejugbe said: “Elections will come and go, but our great state, Ekiti, will remain. Nothing thrives under violence. Our state can only move forward in a peaceful environment. Violence before, during and after elections is totally unnecessary and completely unwarranted because we are not at war. The essence of election is to allow the will of the people to prevail. The people are supposed to decide who will govern them and that is all. Democracy is not about killing or bloodbath, but an avenue where choices are made freely.” Penultimate week, the National Security Adviser (NSA),  Babagana Monguno, assured that the election would be rancour-free. Speaking at the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security organised by INEC, the NSA, represented on the occasion by Sanusi Galadima, explained that the security agencies were monitoring developments in Ekiti, and that his discussions with the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, showed that everything was on course. On his part, INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, said the commission had perfected logistics to ensure the seamless conduct of both the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. Indeed, the Inspector General of Police has ordered the mobilisation and deployment of police personnel, including  the Force Marine, Mounted Troops and the K-9 Section; armoured personnel carriers and technical capabilities of the Police Airwing, for the election.  According to the Force spokesman, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the deployment of seasoned strategic commanders from the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police and above is to ensure effective supervision of security personnel and operations in the election. The IGP has also deployed the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, to Ekiti. Given that elections have consequences, we urge the Ekiti electorate to dissect the presentations by the various candidates and make an informed choice. Ekiti, going by its allocation from the Federation Account and its level of industrialisation, is one of Nigeria’s struggling states. It is therefore badly in need of positive, dynamic and revolutionary leadership that will mobilise its resources to create a sure path to prosperity. It does not need candidates imposed by political merchants and without a mind of their own, or career politicians whose interest is public office as a cash cow. It does not need leaders who will work hard to retain its current status as a civil service state. It needs an innovative thinker who will ensure industrialisation and the enthronement of the democratic ethos; a leader who understands the needs of the people and has a template to make a real difference in their lives. Regardless of the quality of its preparations, it is clear that INEC alone cannot guarantee free and fair polls on Saturday. In this regard, with the massive deployment of covert and overt security arrangements in Ekiti, we call for professionalism and impartiality by the security agencies. They should facilitate rather than stifle the democratic process. They should create a clement atmosphere in which the people can exercise their franchise. On its part, INEC should recognise that its performance in Ekiti and Osun will show how prepared it is for 2023. It should put in a superlative performance in Ekiti. The people’s votes must count. We wish Ekiti State peace, progress and prosperity.