A pregnant lady, woman and her child, have been crushed to death by a driver at Okpare community in Olomu, Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State. The yet-to-be-identified driver of the Toyota Venza is suspected to be an internet fraudster otherwise known as Yahoo Boy. The incident reportedly occurred on Tuesday evening by the popular sharp curve along the Okpare-Ughelli road. Besides the deceased pregnant lady, woman and child, two other persons also sustained fatal injuries from the road crash. The deceased, who were related, were said to be returning from Ughelli when they met their untimely death. The killer-driver was said to be driving the Toyota Venza at high speed when he allegedly veered off his lane and crushed a tricycle with five occupants. The two injured passengers including the driver of the tricycle are said to be receiving medical attention at the Ughelli Central Hospital. It was gathered that the reckless driver has been handed over to the police. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, who confirmed the incident and arrest, said he wasn’t aware of the killer-driver was a Yahoo boy.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.Driver crushes pregnant lady  Driver crushes pregnant lady If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Driver crushes pregnant lady  Driver crushes pregnant lady ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 