Promising Afrobeat artiste, Chekwube Innocent Obiefuna, popularly known as CHXQS, is leaving no stone unturned to carve a niche for himself in the industry. Lagos State-born act has continued to improve on his craft as well as make a difference with his unorthodox style in redefining the Afrobeat music scene. This time, CHXQS is out with a romantic work to express his strong feelings toward someone who doesn’t notice. According to CHXQS the new work entitled, ‘Ana’, released today on https://onerpm.link/207977816747,
is an unconventional chill Afrobeat song with an intimate undertone. After the successful release of his body of work entitled, “EAT(S) NOTHING BUT CHXQS & DUkTOR” CHXQS is set to release his first single of the year ‘Ana’. Speaking about the new single, produced my Duktor, CHXQS noted that a non-fictional experience of unrequited love and admiration from distance inspired the song.  According to him, “ANA was inspired by a girl Anabelle, who I really admired and never got to talk to so I put it into music”. “Your body dey give me fire, Ki bani baya” quoted from the lyrics of this song, one can affirm the admiration and sensational feelings from CHXQS towards Anabelle on this song,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Russian energy embargo unlikely for years, says Putin  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.