An appeal has gone to spirited individuals and philanthropic organizations to come to the aid of 13 years old Miss Ngozi Eke whose inability to walk has deprived her of attending school for about seven months now. The situation was caused by osteomyelitis that is hitting deep into her left leg and has naked her fibula bone. It was narrated that, Ngozi, like other children, on December 26, 2021, in Bauchi collectively stepped out to celebrate the year’s Christmas boxing day before she fell and got an injury in her leg. She painfully recalled, “I told my parents about it and they bought medicine for me and applied the balm. Between that night and the next morning, I could not walk as the leg became swollen,” This condition, according to her father, Ekeh Chukwu, has been treated at the Specialist Hospital and the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi but the last 7 months have been so traumatising for the Ngozi. He said that “Many Doctors have treated this leg but I still can’t walk. I want to go back to school and focus on my studies. I want to be a lawyer,” According to Ngozi’s medical report, signed by Chief Medical Director of Peoples Hospital Limited, Bauchi, Dr Emmanuel O, she has been managed on account of mal-unified non-healed fracture involving the proximal 3rd of the fibula and also clinic osteomyelitis involving half of the fibula with irregular over colony soft tissues. “The patient will benefit from the open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) and also flap cover for the soft tissue. Cost of management for the patient (both surgery and medication will cost her N1.250.000.00,” he said in a report. Ngozi’s father, Ekeh Chukwu, an indigene of Abia State who has been in Gudum Sayawa, Bauchi for over four decades has lost his job as an electrical engineer four years ago. He has exhausted his savings and has spent over N300,000.  Miss Ngozi can be reached through her father Ekeh Chukwu via; 08120833131 and can be supported through the account number; 4926386010 FCMB Ekeh Chukwu. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Ekiti poll: Election free, fair, candidates should accept outcome ​― Observer groups Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.Court vindicates Warri chief  Court vindicates Warri chief 