Some men and women in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of Lagos State have endorsed the former senatorial candidate of the party, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi (PAO) for the position of deputy governor of Lagos State to the party’s governorship candidate, Dr AbdulAzeez Olajide Adeniran in the forthcoming election. Speaking on the endorsement with Tribune Online, on Thursday morning, Mr Isaac Alowonle explained that the position of deputy governor means a lot to the good people of Ikorodu. Alowonle noted that the population explosion recently witnessed in the region, and the community being home to a mass of non-indigenes, will be a huge plus for Lagos State PDP if Oyefusi is granted the Deputy slot. He added that Princess is also enjoying similar support and blessings from other IBILE regions of the state. Another member, Tolulope Atoba explained that the PDP in Lagos State stands to gain immense support by giving the position to the Royal Princess. Tolulope further explained that the party would also enjoy support from the vital women base across the state when the former senatorial candidate of the party is at the frontlines. Others were also unanimous in their support and endorsement, considering her enduring commitment to the party, especially after she contested for the Senate and returned a result that was the first of its kind in the Lagos East, especially from a woman. They described her as a dogged fighter, and a born leader harnessing the bond between leaders and followers of the party especially the women and youth. The women arm of the Members stated that they are ready to play their part and the only way to give them some sense of belonging is to allow Oyefusi to emerge as the deputy governor.  They, therefore, called on all PDP faithful and lovers of a better Lagos State to support the candidature of Princess Abiodun Oyefusi, as running mate to Dr AbdulAzeez Olajide Adeniran (JANDOR) PDP governorship candidate. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…PDP members endorse Oyefusi as Jandor’s running mate Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…PDP members endorse Oyefusi as Jandor’s running mate Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…PDP members endorse Oyefusi as Jandor’s running mate 