The Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP) is responsible for the attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, that led to the death of about 38 persons last Sunday, the National Security Council has revealed. Briefing correspondents at the end of its meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, joined by the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman, who disclosed this, said security agencies are now zeroing in them. While noting that their imprints have been determined in the attack, he said arrests are yet to be made. Aregbesola noted that the attack has no ethnic-religious connection as he affirmed that the group activity has nothing to do with real religion. The minister stated that the council is also concerned about killings in the name of blasphemy and has directed the security agencies to go after perpetrators of both incidents that occurred in Sokoto State and Abuja recently. He added that enough security arrangement has been made for the Ekiti State gubernatorial election taking place on June 18, 2022.  Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ISWAP responsible for Owo church attack ― National Security Council ISWAP responsible for Owo church attack ― National Security Council USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.