Distributors of newspapers and magazines have sought intervention from the government and well-meaning individuals and groups over being neglected and living on peanuts. Under the auspices of the Newspapers and Magazines Distributors’ Association of Nigeria (NDAN), the newspapers’ agents and vendors lamented several losses of lives in motor accidents, injuries and permanent disability suffered from hit-and-run drivers and lack of support from relevant quarters. In a statement by the Chairman, NDAN, Lagos Island, Godwin Akpan, the newspaper distributors said they yearned for insurance cover, enabling business environment and assistance for them to live worthy lives. The statement read: “Newspapers distributors create the new needs in the minds of the customers to buy a particular newspaper/magazine or a particular product or the other but what they get in return are peanuts and total neglect. “Many newspaper vendors and agents lose their lives in motor accidents or sustain injuries that result in permanent disability while plying their trade without any support from government or interest groups, we always carry our own cross, yet we render essential services to our nation, Nigeria. “In view of the foregoing, we need urgent attention. We are constrained to appeal to government or interest groups to identify with us, gather data and give necessary assistance to our organisation. “Government or interest groups should educate newspaper vendors and provide additional skills for them. Government should provide an enabling business environment for distributors of press products by improving the infrastructure. They should provide insurance cover to vendors in case of accidents.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Newspaper distributors lament, seek govt intervention Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Newspaper distributors lament, seek govt intervention Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Newspaper distributors lament, seek govt intervention 