Operatives of the Department of State Security Service (DSS), have arrested three suspected accomplices of the arrested Ogun state notorious killer land grabber, Elijah Adeogun, who was arrested in the Obasanjo area of the state. The arrested suspects, who were all said to be working for Elijah were identified as Adeshina Busari AKA Shiner, Quadri Anisere AKA Vulga and Bolarinwa Yussuf AKA Igun. Elijah was arrested some weeks ago by the DSS operatives following a petition by a family, Adelupo Family of Ipetu Baba Ode in the Baba Ode community accusing him of being responsible for the death of two persons, Monday Eredua on the 17th of November 2021 and Moruf Babalola on the 26th of May 2021. Tribune Online gathered that apart from the Adelupo Family, another family in Ogun state Isele Gbobalaya also petitioned the DSS and linked the arrested Elijah with the murder of a member of their family, Idowu Arinadegbo in 2013. Adelupo family in their petition to the DSS claimed that all their efforts to get Elijah to pay for his atrocities were blocked even at the DPP, where the case was referred to for advice by the IPO ” It was further gathered that individuals, including a retired police officer, have also reportedly come out to accuse the detained land grabber of attacking him in an effort to kill him.  The suspects were reportedly arrested following confessional statements from Elijah and diligent Investigations by the operatives of the DSS. One of the sources said ” You know how DSS works, they don’t just arrest suspects over frivolous and petty offences. They are properly investigating the allegations.” The source added that ” It was not only Elijah that was involved in the alleged killings. There were other people and the DSS operatives have got some links on them .” Another source said ” The DSS operatives are making progress on their Investigations. They have arrested three more persons already and they are still on the trail of others .” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…DSS arrest 3 accomplices of Ogun killer land grabber Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…DSS arrest 3 accomplices of Ogun killer land grabber Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.