Yes, the COVID-19 pandemic has fueled drug abuse here in the United States. Coming out of the gate, we answer this question. We’ll go into a deeper explanation as to why in a moment. Before going forward, let us remind you that it’s never too late to get the help you need. If you or someone you know has developed an addiction at any point during the pandemic, Gallus Detox will be ready to help. You can find this informative and decide if they are the right detox service for you. Take a moment to read through this article as we’ll explain how the pandemic has made the drug abuse issue worse here in the United States. Let’s begin. The amount of opioid overdoses resulting in death had increased dramatically since 2019. Compared to numbers from that year, the increase was 75 percent. This also included deaths related to fentanyl, a synthetic opioid. Not to be outdone, deaths from overdoses due to cocaine and meth have also increased. Already, the death toll for both drugs have already created an upward trend. Unfortunately, this number will continue to increase if nothing changes. The stress levels of the pandemic had reached all-time highs. For those who were staying home due to the pandemic, it has also taken a mental toll on them. As a way to cope, they turned to various drugs for an escape. This created a recipe for disaster and thus many people have developed addictions. Because of this, it also contributed to the rise of overdose deaths. This is further proof that when it comes to relieving stress, drugs are not an appropriate coping mechanism.  Many of the drugs included opioids, cocaine, and even marijuana. While marijuana is legal in most of the country, the more illicit drugs were more of a threat. Because of their potency and risk of fatal overdoses, many people were using such drugs in an effort to create that ‘euphoric’ feeling. In 2020, more than 93,000 deaths were reported due to overdose. This was the largest increase over a 50 year period. Once again, this was pointed at the pandemic making it difficult for people. Aside from this, health facilities had become understaffed. Access to rehab and detox services were either restricted or shut down. This meant that many people were turned away while trying to get the help they received. Those who may have been turned away are either continuing their addiction or have died since then. This is a fact that is not only saddening, but should be a sobering lesson. The next time a pandemic were to happen, drug treatment facilities should be better prepared for taking care of their patients. Even if they are unable to admit them into their facilities, they need to take the necessary steps to treat them. In-home detox may be considered one of the riskiest options for treatment. But that could be the only choice if someone is turned away from a drug treatment center due to restrictions. Aside from drugs being abused, more people have begun drinking during the pandemic. Thus, it paved the way for more people to abuse alcohol as the pandemic progressed. With bars and restaurants closing, many people began to buy more alcohol. Plus, they would stay home and drink as much as possible. With bars and restaurants not being able to cut off their consumption, it gave people free reign at home. Thus, they would drink regularly to kill off boredom or cope with the mental stress of staying home due to the pandemic. Regretfully, the drug and alcohol abuse issue goes beyond the borders of the United States. With much of the world shutting down, several countries have witnessed similar incidents. Which means more overdoses and people abusing alcohol as a result. Not to mention, the number of alcohol related illnesses and deaths will increase over the next several years. This is proof that drugs and alcohol can lead to lifelong health issues that can cause them to die earlier than their life expectancy. Keep in mind that this won’t just be a problem in the United States, but also in countries such as the United Kingdom, Italy, France, and elsewhere around the world. As the pandemic winded down, the restrictions are being lifted. This includes facilities that are accepting new patients for drug and alcohol treatment. This means that people may be less likely turned away. However, there may be a new issue that will arise. It’s the overpopulation of drug treatment facilities. Thus, it can get to a point where they may need to be referred elsewhere. At this point, the world is dealing with the effects of a post-pandemic era. This could mean that things may be coming back to normal, but there is some difficulty that can lead to stressful situations. This means people may still be coping with the use of drugs or alcohol. If anything, it’s important for people dealing with addiction to get the help they need as soon as possible. The pandemic has been to blame for the increased number of drug and alcohol abuse. Likewise, it has also been responsible for the record number of overdose deaths across America and parts of the world. If you need help, Gallus Detox will be able to get the treatment you need. If you have developed an addiction during the pandemic, now is the time to stop now. With treatment facilities now opening up once again, you have the chance to talk with someone about kicking your addiction. The sooner you get started on a treatment plan, the better off you’ll be in the future. 