The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev Yakubu Pam, has said that the Commission will flag off its 2021 main pilgrimage exercise to Jordan and Israel in Abuja on June 15. The NCPC boss made the disclosure in Abuja on June 6 at a virtual meeting with states’ pilgrimage leaders and managers. According to the Rev Pam, “The inaugural flight would comprise FCT, Bayelsa and other essential service providers such as the medical personnel, consulars, among others.” He added that about 360 intending pilgrims would make up the first batch. He further disclosed that the airlift of the second batch of the pilgrimage exercise would be on June 24 in Abuja and would comprise FCT, Bauchi and Nassarawa States’ contingents. Rev Pam explained that the Commission ought to have commenced the airlift of intending pilgrims on May 31, but was shifted due to operational reasons.  He further hinted that the 2021 main pilgrimage route would go through Nigeria, Jordan, Israel and back. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NCPC to flag off  NCPC to flag off Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NCPC to flag off  NCPC to flag off USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.