The abductors of the member of the Governing Council, Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC), Alhaji Isah Ozi-Salami who was kidnapped some weeks ago in Adavi Local Government Council, have placed a ransom of N120 million to enable him regain his freedom. Ozi-Salami is a member of Governing Council, Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC), representing Kogi State. He was abducted two weeks ago at Ogaminana in Adavi Local Government Area of Kogi State on his way to the mosque to observe his morning prayer at about 5.30 am. A member of the family who pleaded that his name should not be in print said the abductors called the family of the elder statesman on Sunday evening by phone and demanded the sum of N120 million to grant the abductee freedom. The family member stated that the elder statesman commissioned water projects in Adavi Local Government Area a day before he was kidnapped that fateful day. The source added that the kidnappers came with a vehicle parked along with the victim’s residence and zoom off with the old man around five a.m and whisked him away to an unknown destination.  He stated that a young man who made an attempt to save the abductee was shot by the gunmen and died on the spot. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Kidnappers demand N120m  Kidnappers demand N120m Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Kidnappers demand N120m  Kidnappers demand N120m Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.