About 150 widows in Onitsha South Local Government Area of Anambra State, have begged a house of representatives candidate, Hon. Edward Ibuzo, for marriage. They made the plea when the candidate, who is currently a member of the state House of Assembly, representing the Onitsha North II, came for thanksgiving at the Saint Jude Catholic Church, Woliwo, Onitsha. Ibuzo said he came to God for being unopposed in going to the Green chamber under the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The president of the widows association, Mrs Ego Augustina, said, “Ibuzo is a man of the people, he has been taking good care of the widows in the area and he gives us free loans. “When we heard he is here to give thanks to God for being elected unopposed to represent APGA in the Federal House of Representatives, we rushed to also honour him with this “winning award”. “We are pleading with him to marry us, we are not too much for him. We need protection and care and he has been doing it before now, so he should marry us. “He will perform more than he has done at the state level because he has the heart to deliver and that is why they call him, ‘Liver to Deliver’. “Some of us are being intimidated by brothers and relations to our late husbands and nobody comes to our rescue. Ibuzo has a listening ear and has done a lot for his constituents.” ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Earlier in his speech, Ibuzo said, “I am here in the church to thank God for being unopposed to be the APGA candidate for the House of Representatives. Ibuzo who was optimistic that his achievements in the State House of Assembly will speak for him, reiterated that he is going to the Green chambers to better the lots of the people, especially the downtrodden. “I believe that if elected I will achieve more than what I have achieved in the State House of Assembly. The achievements are there for all to see and I believe God that I will be there.” He commended the widows and pledged not to relent in fighting for their welfare adding that his mother was a widow and as such he knows what they have been going through. Speaking, the National Vice Chairman of APGA, South-South zone, Chief Ogbueshi Eboka, said that, “Ibuzo has done wonderfully well to his people and  I am sure he will be at the Green Chamber. He doesn’t play with his constituents” Also Mrs Juliet Ezenwosu, Anambra State woman leader of National  Women Artisan Association of Nigeria, who was flanked by Onisha South branch leader, Mrs Ijeoma Okafor, said Ibuzo has done a lot to the people and women in general. She urged all and sundry to support his ambition for more dividends of democracy adding that he never fails in any election because of his achievements and kindness.  