The Bishop of the Anglican Diocese of Igbomina West, Kwara State, Rt Revd Olajide Adebayo has lamented that Nigeria is facing a myriad of challenges ranging from security to economy due to the lack of integrity among leaders in the country. The cleric explained that the country would find it difficult to experience growth, development and overcome the socio-economic challenges if the leaders continued to pursue their selfish interests above that of the citizens and the society. Bishop Adebayo spoke in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital during the 80th birthday reception held in honour of a former president of the Association of the Customary Court Judges, Pa Akinwande Adeosun, adding that the celebrant distinguished himself as a man of integrity, full of character and helper of humanity. The elated celebrant who thanked God for the grace to achieve the milestone said he would continue to dedicate his life to service to humanity without compromising his integrity. Speaking on the theme, “Integrity: The Cornerstone of Building a Prosperous Nation” the Anglican bishop said that the absence of men of proven integrity and character in the corridor of power is contributing to the increased level of poverty in the country. According to him, “We are here today to celebrate a man of proven integrity and character that we are very proud to associate with. Let me quickly say that the topic of today is challenging because we are living in a country where integrity has been taken off our dictionary; integrity is lost because no one is thinking about society.  “Let me inform guests here today that there can’t be a successful nation without men of integrity and character in positions of authority. We have lost virtually everything today in the country solely because character and integrity are missing and when these are missing poverty becomes imminent, no wonder there is the poverty of ideas as knowledge. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “As long as people sacrifice prosperity for integrity, there won’t be progress.” Oh his part, the pioneer managing director, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company, Dr Olufemi Lalude expressed sadness that the foundation of the country is in crisis due to a lack of integrity and honesty of purpose, calling on the citizens to approach the 2023 general election with the sole aim of changing the narratives by voting people with impeccable character. Lalude while eulogising the exploits and contributions of the celebrant to humanity, added that a society with people of proven integrity in leadership positions will experience growth and socio-economic development. “Integrity remains the cornerstone of growth, someone who has Integrity will make promise and keep it. This is essential in everything we do if we want a prosperous society, integrity is the soul of any nation and lets me add that next year’s elections will show if the foundation of this country will be solidified,” he said. A professor of political science at the Ekiti State University Ado-Ekiti, Femi Omotoso said that the political class has failed the nation with their actions and inactions, noting that until the society reward and encourages people of integrity, the nation won’t experience the needed change. USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.