There are some spices in your home right now that you have no idea of how many health benefits they embody. There’s much more that those spices in your home have to offer than you think.  According to pushdoctor.co.uk, spices improve circulation, lower blood clots, lower blood pressure, and decrease the risk of blood clots. Here are the health benefits of five spices commonly used for cooking In Nigerian homes, nutmeg is a popular spice for cooking Jollof rice, and it is loved for its unique flavor and its aroma. It doesn’t just end there. It has lots of nutritional value. According to Healthline, nutmeg contains powerful anti-inflammatory plant compounds that act as oxidants. Antioxidants protect you from cancer, heart disease, and liver disease.  However, as good as nutmeg seems, taking overly large quantities has side effects. It could get really poisonous for you. It is safe to take this spice in small amounts. According to Webmd.com, taking two teaspoons or 5 grams can cause symptoms of toxicity and larger intakes could be worse and could probably lead to death. It is also reported to be able to cause hallucinations, dizziness, nausea, irregular heartbeat.  Ginger is a member of a plant family that includes cardamom and turmeric. It is reported by Med Today that its spicy aroma is mainly due to the presence of ketones, especially the gigerols which appear to be the primary component of ginger. It is used in different forms, and has a peppery flavor with spicy aroma.   Garlic is a common ingredient in the kitchen. It is a powerful antibiotics. According to MEDSimplified, it is commonly used for conditions relating to the heart and blood system. It has the following health benefits:   According to Natural Health Remedies, it can be easily added to a meal or drink without adding calories to your body. Cinnamon popularly known as Christmas spice is a substance that is produced from the bark of certain trees. Its active ingredients make it so nutritious.   According to Natural Health Remedies, this particular spice is called the King of Spices. It is said to be one of the oldest spices in the world. It’s been recorded that it was used to treat people centuries ago.  Bonus Point IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 