Fear has gripped residents of New garage area, Ibadan over the reported death of a traffic warden (name withheld) by suspected hoodlums on Thursday night. The victim, as reliably informed was killed during an altercation with suspected hoodlums. The deceased, as reliably informed was on an official assignment when the incident happened. Our correspondent gathered that the suspected hoodlums died on the spot following injuries sustained in an attack by the hoodlums The deceased, according to a source was attacked with dangerous weapons. However, another source stated that a reckless motorist overran the suspect while on an official assignment in the area.  The source added that suspected motorists flouted the traffic law and in a bid to call him to order, he ran over the traffic warden. However, in a bid to prevent the incident from snowballing into a major crisis, the police have beefed up security around the area. As part of the security measures, traffic has been restricted to a single lane as against the dual lanes in the area. Efforts to reach out to the State Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso, proved abortive. Also, a text message forwarded to his mobile line was also not responded to. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…traffic warden reportedly killed  traffic warden reportedly killed Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…traffic warden reportedly killed  traffic warden reportedly killed USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.