Members of the Igbomina-Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC) Women Forum have congratulated the ruling party for a successful re-run primary election in the Ekiti/Isin/Irepodun/Oke-Ero federal constituency of Kwara state. The coordinator of the group, Mrs Dorcas Atoyebi, who commended the national secretariat of the APC for its decision to reconduct the primary in the federal constituency, said that the exercise was in the spirit of fairness and justice. Meanwhile, supporters of Engineer Cornelius Adebayo, the winner of the first APC primary election in the federal constituency, on Friday faulted the conduct of the rerun primary election, describing it as a kangaroo election. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin on Friday, supporters of the aggrieved aspirant, led by Emmanuel Moronfoye, said that Engineer Adebayo remained the validly elected APC flag bearer for the Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin federal constituency. In a statement on Friday in Osi, Ekiti local government area of Kwara State Atoyebi also said that some aspirants in the first primary had petitioned the appeal committee on irregularities noticed during the exercise, thereby putting the integrity of the primary in doubt. The group advised party members in the constituency to embrace peace and accept the outcome of the primary in the spirit of oneness.  However, Moronfoye said that there is no valid ground for rescheduling the purported re-run primary election, adding that there was no protest or valid complaint against the initial primary election, “as the result was widely accepted by all”. “The purported re-run election was not communicated to Engineer Cornelius Oluwasegun Adebayo and the reason for the cancellation of the only valid election is still unknown. “Cornelius Adebayo was neither represented nor did he have any agent present during the rerun. It was an internal arrangement orchestrated by a few unscrupulous elements disguised as progressives,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Controversy over Ekiti/Isin  Controversy over Ekiti/Isin Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Controversy over Ekiti/Isin  Controversy over Ekiti/Isin USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.