Management of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has scheduled the 2022 Batch B, Stream 1 orientation course to commence on Wednesday, June 15, 2022. In a statement by the Kwara state coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs Francisca Olaleye, the 21-day orientation programme will run concurrently in all the NYSC orientation camps in the 36 states and the FCT, Abuja. The NYSC coordinator, who said that the Kwara State permanent orientation camp in Yikpata, Edu local government area is now a beehive of activities, added that the orientation camp was ready to host prospective corps members deployed to the state for their national service. According to the State Coordinator, the orientation camp has been properly fumigated against reptiles and put in place to host the course participants. “It is also worthy to inform the general public that the various NCDC’s COVID-19 protocols and preventive measures have been put in place at the orientation camp. “In order to ensure a hitch-free and successful orientation exercise in Kwara state, the collaborating agencies (The Nigeria Army, The Police, NSCDC, DSS, NDLEA) and other partners have been adequately sensitised in preparation for the exercise. “The camp will open for the Prospective Corps, as early as 7 am on Wednesday 15th June 2022 and the registration exercise will commence immediately. The official opening and Swearing-in ceremony for the newly deployed Corps members will take place on Tuesday 21st, June 2022 at 10.00 am prompt. His Lordship, the Chief Judge of Kwara State is expected to administer the oath of allegiance to the Corps members and formally Inducts them into the National service. The orientation exercise will formally come to end by Tuesday 5th July 2022. “The orientation exercise will feature various activities like the paramilitary drills, Sports, Lectures, Socials and Skills Acquisition programme for all the participants. I am also directed to inform the general public that the NYSC management has been assured that adequate security measures will be put in place by the security agencies, in order to achieve a hitch-free orientation exercise. Apart from the security patrol within and the orientation camp, other measures will be put in place to ensure hitch-free exercise in Kwara State.  “The NYSC management also uses this medium to appeal to the good people of Kwara State, especially, members of the NURTW, across the state to accord the newly deployed Corps members to the state, warm reception and hospitality, which Kwara people are known for. We wish all the prospective Corps members journey mercy as they travel to their respective camps across the country.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NYSC Batch B orientation  NYSC Batch B orientation Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NYSC Batch B orientation  NYSC Batch B orientation