Popular Nollywood actress, Chacha Eke Faani has disclosed that her marriage to Austin Faani has ended, as a result of various levels of physical abuse. The mother of four took to her social media page to announce to her fans who were shocked at the news. From the lengthy post she made, she stated that it’d be better if she leaves now that she’s still alive or risk leaving as a corpse. while also adding that she doesn’t want to die or go inexplicably missing while revealing that she has released pieces of evidence to her lawyers and the police in case things went awry. “LEAVE NOW ALIVE OR LEAVE AS A CORRPPSE Many have died pretending all is well whilst wishing, hoping and praying for a better tomorrow.
I don’t want to “die” or go inexplicably “missing”. I sincerely and publicly apologize for living a lie these past years. True to random speculations, there has been trouble in my “perceived paradise”. For the 2nd time in 2years, I am here again on social media boldly declaring that I am done with my marriage. My long overdue/relentless stance on this is of course no news to Austin Faani, the doctors and my parents. If push comes to shove & suddenly i am incommunicado; my lawyers, the welfare department and the Nigerian police force have my testimonials in recorded video clips/statements set for public release on all social media apps and national newspapers” The actress stated.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  