Police Command in Ondo State on Thursday denied knowledge of the arrest of the suspected terrorists who invaded, attacked and killed worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo a few weeks ago. Speaking, the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Funmilayo Odunlami, said the Command was not aware of claims by Ondo State Security Network codenamed Amotekun Corps that some persons suspected to be involved in the attack have been arrested. Odunlami said that the command has been working in collaboration with the state security outfit but said the command was not involved in the arrest of any of the suspects even though it works in collaboration with the Amotekun Corps. Odunlami who distanced the command from the report of the arrest of suspects in connection to the Owo attack maintained that the information did not emanate from the police. “I can confirm to you that we are still working round the clock to ensure the perpetrators of the attack are brought to book but as I speak, no arrest has been made and we are assuring the public that they will not go unpunished,” she said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike  The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  