WINNERS have emerged at the maiden edition of the Lagos Intellectual Quiz Competition (LIQC) organised by the Muslim Students› Society of Nigeria (MSSN), Lagos State Area Unit. This is as stakeholders in the education sector asked government at all levels to prioritise quality education. The grand finale of the event, held at the Multipurpose Hall of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Lagos, on Saturday, was attended by leaders and members of the Lagos State Area Unit of the MSSN. The keenly contested competition saw Majisa Okunade from Ansar-Ud-Deen High School, Surulere and Moosa Akintunde, a student of MIMS Comprehensive College, Bajulaye, Somolu, emerging champions in the senior and junior categories respectively. Also, Muhammad Ajuwon from Agidingbi Senior Secondary School, Ikeja, and Muhammad Isu, another student of MIMS Comprehensive College, Bajulaye, Somolu, took the first and second runner-up positions for the senior category. The junior category finalists were Khawlah Bello from Excelsior Islamic Schools, Satellite Town, Amuwo Odofin (first runner-up) and Nimotallah Ibrahim, Odumola Junior Secondary School, Epe (second runner-up).  The winners in both categories went home with N200,000 each. While the first runners-up received N140,000 each, and the second runners-up went home with N100,000 each. Other consolation prizes were also awarded. Head, Organising Committee of LIQC, Mr Kamaldeen Abiona, said the edition started with preliminaries across the local government areas in the state. In a speech, the Amir of the MSSN, Lagos State Area Unit, Malam Miftahudeen Thanni, lamented the continuing decline in the quality of education in Nigeria. “Undoubtedly, quality education has eluded our great nation, Nigeria. Quality and free education is almost made impossible or is now a tale of the past as various setbacks have been witnessed in the sector over the years. It is an eyesore that the quality of education has totally dropped,” Thanni said. The chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Saheed  Amzat, who is the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Zedcrest Capitals, also advocated quality education in the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Muslim students win N1m  Muslim students win N1m Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Muslim students win N1m  Muslim students win N1m USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.