Okeho and her environs in Kajola Local Government Area of Oyo State, under Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency of Oyo and Oyo North Senatorial District, can be referred to as a haven for many unutilied constituency projects. With or without the commissioning of these projects, they are yet to be beneficial to the people of the community as they remain under lock and key. There has been no value addition to the community. During the seventh Senate between 2011 and 2015, Senator Hosea Ayoola Agboola popularly known as Halleluyah, representing Oyo North Senatorial District in the Green Chamber, Okeho was a beneficiary of two gigantic health centers, which were facilitated by the Igbojaiye-born politician. Initially, these particular projects brought so much joy to the people of Okeho and her environs. One of the health centers is at Alaapa Area of Okeho, along Olowo-Ata, while the second one at Isale Alubo, area of Okeho. Although these projects were completed, that of Alaapa was commissioned by the Senator himself, but after the commissioning of the project till now, no single patient had accessed medical care at these locations till date. As such, it is neither viable in terms of the provision of health care services nor employment for healthcare practitioners. Although, it cannot be ascertained if that of Isale-Alubo was commissioned but it has been completed, with a Mikano generator in the hospital’s compound and other medical equipment lying fallow within the premises. These two beautiful edifices are now surrounded by bushes and inhabited by lizards and wall geckos. These two projects, after almost a decade, are just there, adding no value to anyone. There is an urgent need for the government and our political leaders to help our community by recruiting and putting these projects to use. We hereby call on Governor Seyi Makinde to see these two health care facilities as low-hanging fruits for his administration and make the best out of the current situation. This will make the presence of the state government felt within the left few months of his first term in office. Kayode Awojobi, Okeho  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.