Losing weight is challenging to many, especially when people shower you with advice such as eating healthy foods, adapting to a healthy lifestyle, and many more. Some are even recommending the use of weight loss pills. Despite your weight loss efforts, you look at yourself in a mirror and regularly check your progress but see no difference. You may also observe some improvements but go back to having some more episodes of weight gain. Worry no more as we listed steps you can do to help you lose weight naturally. If you observe that you can’t maintain all the weight you want to achieve, we also listed things on how to lose weight and keep it off. While losing weight naturally may be challenging, you may get more motivated if you know that permanent weight loss is possible. We are getting straight to it, so here’s how to lose weight naturally and maintain it. If you’re looking for a safe, effective and all-natural weight loss supplement, look no further than fat burner supplements. Made with powerful ingredients like green tea extract and caffeine, fat burners help increase metabolism and curb appetite, making it easier for you to lose weight. To get the most out of your fat burner supplement, be sure to follow the directions on the label and take it as directed. How much sugar do you take daily? When you eat whole, single-ingredient foods, you are already avoiding adding fat and added sugar from processed food. It can also make you full for a long period, providing your body with essential nutrients.  These foods are often high in sugar, fats, and calories. These foods are also made to make you eat more than what your body needs as much as possible. According to research, what foods you have at home affects eating behavior, which also affects your weight loss journey. Having healthy foods increases your likelihood to eat healthy food. Having junk food increases your likelihood to eat junk food as well. Various healthy foods are available such as whole fruit, vegetables, nuts, and hard-boiled eggs. According to Health Canal Magazine, protein is known as the king of nutrients, especially when it comes to weight loss. When the body is digesting proteins, it is also burning calories. It can then boost metabolism, reducing 80–100 calories per day. It also reduces hunger and appetite. Sugary foods, especially processed ones wherein they add artificial sugars can increase your blood sugar or blood glucose, causing type 2 diabetes. The worst thing is it can often be hardly found on food labels. It is not helpful for weight loss, and you will only end up gaining weight. Water plays a role in weight loss, especially if you consume it as a replacement for beverages high in sugar and calories. 0.5 liter of water can burn up to 24–30% of calories. Having some water before meals also decreases calorie intake. Coffee contains antioxidants and may boost metabolism by around 3–11%. It almost does not contain calories but increases energy levels and makes you feel full at the same time. Some examples of liquid calories are commercial fruit juices, soft drinks, and energy drinks. It doesn’t help weight loss but increases the risk of becoming obese instead. These are foods that have fiber and other important nutrients, but only carbohydrates are left. These are easy-to-digest foods, so you tend to eat more than you would actually need to. Examples of refined carbohydrates are white bread and white rice. You can replace it with brown rice instead. It is an eating pattern having cycles of fasting and eating. There are different ways to do it, but it generally helps you eat fewer calories. They are fiber-rich foods that also contain water and other nutrients. They have a low energy density, which means even if you consume them a lot, you will still not get too many calories. When you limit carb intake and consume more proteins, your appetite also decreases. According to research, this is even 3 times more effective than a standard low-fat diet. Monitoring what you eat and how much you’ve already consumed is an effective way to cut calories from your diet. We already mentioned how calorie restriction can help you lose weight. Stop eating too fast as your body may later realize that you are already full. As a result, you will be eating more calories than usual. Meanwhile, eating more slowly helps your body produce more hormones linked to weight loss. Not having enough sleep disrupts fluctuations in hormones relating to appetite, causing poor appetite regulation. Sleep-deprived individuals are also prone to obesity. Fiber contributes a lot to healthy digestion. It can also make you feel full for a few hours but at the same time improve your metabolism. You can include whole grains and refined grains with fruits and vegetables to balance your fiber intake. It is not only helping you with weight loss but also prevents the loss of muscle mass. A loss of muscle mass commonly happens to people who just lost weight. However, it is different from resistance exercises like weightlifting. This is an effective way to beat emotional eating – eating out of stress. It increases your awareness of what you eat, where you would know whether you can give yourself a calorie allowance or empty calories-rich foods.  Some people can lose 10 pounds in just a week. However, according to experts, not everyone can do it. Indeed, you may put yourself into risky situations if you try doing it on your own. If you are determined to achieve such a goal, it is best to get supervised by your doctor. Losing weight permanently might be daunting at first. However, we have too many ways to lose weight to help you achieve your goal. You would not know how to lose weight permanently, but also know how to lose weight naturally. There are many ways to lose weight permanently including a balanced diet by eating plenty of unprocessed foods. You can list down your food choices through meal planning as well. You can but it is still better to have it. Also, proper diet and exercise are a good combination if you want to lose weight. The best way to burn fat is having combinations of supplements, balanced diets and healthy practices, which also enable you to achieve a healthy weight. 