NLNG Ship Management Limited (NSML) and EA Temile & Sons Development Company Limited have signed an agreement for supervision of the construction of a new-build 23,000 cubic metre LPG vessel at the Hyundai Mipo shipyard in South Korea. According to a statement signed recently by NLNG’s General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Andy Odeh, the new-build LPG vessel is a sister vessel to the LPG Alfred Temile. NSML would be responsible for supervising the vessel’s construction at the Hyundai Mipo shipyard in Korea. NSML is the subsidiary of Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) which offers integrated maritime services, including maritime projects management, maritime training, crew management and administration, fleet management, terminal management services and consultancy services. The agreement was signed by NSML’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Abdulkadir Ahmed, and EA Temile’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr Alfred Temile. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Present at the signing ceremony was the Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari; the Ambassador of Nigeria to South Korea, H.E. Ali Magashi; the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development & Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote, who joined virtually; NLNG’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Dr Philip Mshelbila; NLNG’s Deputy Managing Director, Mr Olalekan Ogunleye, among other guests. Speaking at the milestone event, NSML’s MD, Abdulkadir Ahmed, said supervising the construction of the new-build LPG vessel was in line with NSML’s vision of being “an international maritime services company supporting the growth and development of the Nigerian maritime industry” which fully aligns with NLNG’s vision of “helping to build a better Nigeria.” In his remarks, EA Temile’s Chief Executive, Alfred Temile, said its first LPG vessel, LPG Alfred Temile, is chartered to NLNG for its domestic LPG scheme. He said his company was looking forward to taking delivery of the new carrier in July 2023. USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.