Operatives of the Ilorin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) over the weekend arrested 19 suspected internet fraudsters in a sting operation in Lokoja, the Kogi State Capital. The suspects were smoked out of their hideouts by the eagle-eyed operatives of the EFCC following credible intelligence on their fraudulent activities. The suspects include a serving corps member in the State, Adamu Shuabu and eighteen others. They are, Achimugu Nelson Ojonoka, Victor Atsumbe, Akoh Grace Samuel, Usman Abubakar Sadiq, Jacob Emmanuel, Solomon John, Christian Oyakhilome, Adesanya Adeolu Tosin, Uloko George Ojonugwa and Timothy Eleojo Moses. Others are Negedu Joseph Onuchei, Usman Tenimu, Lukman Musa, Samuel Atadoga, Daniel Atekojo James, Abdulrazaq Iko-ojo Ahnod, Olarewaju John Olumide and Ademola Adegoke Daniel. Upon arrest, a Lexus car, a huge sum of money suspected to be proceeds of illegal activities, and different brands of phones, laptops and other incriminating materials were recovered from them.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… EFCC arrests corps member, 18 other internet fraudsters in Lokoja Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG EFCC arrests corps member, 18 other internet fraudsters in Lokoja Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.