General superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry, Pastor William Kumuyi, has advised Nigerian political leaders to consult widely and conduct research before coming to conclusion on the issue of Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian tickets for the 2023 presidential election. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin on Wednesday after meeting with Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Pastor Kumuyi, said that the presidential standard-bearers should look at the heartbeat of the country and the desires of the people before making their decisions. “Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christan ticket is a difficult and slippery area. So, what I will say is that the political office holders should look at the heartbeat of the country as well as the desires of the people. “They should know that they are not there for themselves. They are there for all of us. They should ask and make their research about what the country wants. They should ask and make their research on what the country wants, what the people want and if they listen to the people, we will be confident that they will listen to us when they get there”, he said. On the prevailing security challenges in the country, the clergyman applauded the security agents for doing their best. “By the grace of God, I believe that the security agents are doing their best. We can always improve. In every area of life, I will say there’s room for improvement. I want to credit the officers who are putting their lives on the line to secure the whole country. We should be praying for them that God will give them more wisdom and visible victory in the security of the country.” The cleric, who said that his mission in Kwara state was meant to be a blessing to Kwara State, under special supernatural deliverance for everyone through Christ, added that “I’ll be praying for everyone at the end of every ministration for their desires, aspiration and blessings.” “God is our Creator, whether we are, Muslims or Christians or whatever religion you belong to. We are creatures of God. God is interested in blessing everyone. I’m here to be a blessing to everyone. There will be an empowerment programme for all youth across religious divides as it is meant to redirect the focus of the youth for positive future endeavours.” Also speaking, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq said that the empowerment programme of the church is a welcome development, adding that it is in line with the administration’s youth-focused agenda.  The governor, who said that the state government set up a probe panel at the end of the #EndSARS protest, added that one of the recommendations of the panel was to pay more attention to the demands of the youth. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.Research into heartbeat  Research into heartbeat If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Research into heartbeat  Research into heartbeat ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 