The democratic vision in Nigeria is one where leadership position even from councillorship level goes to the highest bidder and not the man that has good antecedent and is competent enough to change the narrative; the stupendous willfull damages in all sectors of the economy, the haphazard actions of terrorists and chaos reigning in the country amongst other sticky wickets bedeviling the nation. The democratic vision can’t be achieved where delegates are not thinking beyond the depth of their pockets rather than thinking of the patriotic vision of the country that will galvanize them to select the right leaders ready for the job. Therefore, delegates must imbibe national consciousness and should be people with strong convictions to make things better for Nigerians, they should understand that majority of Nigerians are at the receiving end of whatever the political class perpetrates. Therefore, by 2027 it is a burden around the necks of party delegates to collectively and solidly select the candidates with highest caliber who are determined, patriotic, competent, dedicated and committed to deliver Nigeria to the promise land and restore its glory. However, the actions of the delegates are controlled by the different forms of political maneuvers to favour the anointed candidates or the candidate that has paid them the highest and this has been a hindrance in checking the excesses of the past administration and also a tool that is breeding corruption, mentored incompetency and other irregularities in the country. Therefore, there’s a need to redefine the parameters and yardstick behind election conventions in most political parties to tackle the irregularities, misconduct, scandalous extortion and exorbitant indignation which marginalized many candidates. Isma’il Alkasim,  Jigawa State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Delegates and Utopian visions  Delegates and Utopian visions Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Delegates and Utopian visions  Delegates and Utopian visions USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.