The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) instigated what it observed as a dastardly action to prevent citizens, particularly people of the South -East region resident in Lagos State from collecting their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) to enable them to vote in the 2023 general elections. In a statement issued by Hon Debo Ologunagba, its National Publicity Secretary, the main opposition party noted that Nigerians are disturbed by the action, which it blamed on the APC in Lagos which it said is part of “its desperate design to use violence to sabotage free, fair and credible elections in 2023 having realised that Nigerians have rejected its Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu ahead of the polls.” The PDP added: “Asiwaju Tinubu has been in morbid fear of the soaring popularity of the PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, hence the attempt by the APC to stop Nigerians from obtaining their PVCs to vote in the elections; an action that portends serious threat and danger to our democratic process. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Is it not an irony that the party of the government of the day that pretends to have the support of the people and professes continuity is busy chasing away prospective voters?  “The APC is already suffering from Pre-Election Fever Syndrome in trepidation that it cannot win in a free, fair, credible and transparent process where Nigerians are allowed to freely express their Will. “It is particularly disturbing that this pattern is a resurgence of the previous attempts in 2019 where APC leaders harassed Nigerians, especially the people of the South-East and threatened to throw them into the Lagoon should they vote for any other party other than the APC. “It will also be recalled that similar act of violence was unleashed on Nigerians in the Isolo axis of Lagos in the 2019 general elections, where the APC, upon discovering that it has been rejected at the polls, openly sponsored and unleashed terror on innocent citizens and destroyed all votes cast. “The APC has again become chaotic and desperate because Nigerians have recognised it as what it is; a Special Purpose Vehicle which was hurriedly put together to defraud the nation. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the APC must know that they cannot surmount the determination of Nigerians who are now rallying on the platform of the PDP to use this 2023 general elections to take back their country from the stranglehold and misrule of the corrupt, incompetent, inhumane and rudderless APC.” The statement cautioned the APC flag bearer and the ruling party to thread carefully and rein in their thugs, hoodlums and terrorists, warning that they will be firmly resisted by Nigerians. How Gunmen Attacked Ondo Church Killing Over 50 During Mass Lagos PVC Clash: PDP alleges Tinubu, APC afraid of election We Will Sanction Tinubu For Insulting Buhari ― Adamu, APC National Chairman Lagos PVC Clash: PDP alleges Tinubu, APC afraid of election USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.