Ahead of the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, a senatorial aspirant in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Kehinde Agboola has announced his withdrawal from the governorship campaign committee for the party ahead of the poll. Agboola who contested for the Ekiti North senatorial ticket in a statement he personally signed and made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital on Monday said he would not be part of the campaign over what he described as injustice melted on him on the senatorial race. He noted that there was no genuine senatorial primaries in the zone, saying the party leadership has failed to address the issues raised with his petition to the appeal committee on the exercise. According to him, “I hereby write to formally disclaim and withdraw my name from the Ekiti State Gubernatorial Campaign Committee pending when the party will do the needful, to right all wrongs. “Since we cannot build something on nothing, I can’t be part of a structure built on injustice, inequity, abuse of due process and absolute malpractice. I also call on all lovers of democracy and party faithful to remain steadfast. “Only the unpopular aspirant ran away from our primary election at an accredited INEC centre of Ido Ekiti, as against electoral guidelines and clear sections of the Electoral laws.  “Ekiti North rejects imposition and the will of our people shall surely come to pass.Injustice has sent many people away from this party and that must stop forthwith.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.