At least 46 people were also injured in the fiery explosion in an office building near the city’s District Court on Thursday morning. Police said they were investigating the cause of the attack but believed it may have been an act of arson. The suspected perpetrator, a man in his 50s, had died at the scene, officials said. More than 150 firefighters were deployed to the central location shortly after the blaze broke out around 10:55 local time (01:55 GMT). Crews put out the fire within 20 minutes, officials said. Most of the injured were taken to hospital with afflictions linked to smoke inhalation.  Police have launched an investigation. CCTV footage of the office showed the alleged perpetrator entering the second-floor office with materials, BBC Korean reported. Local media reported that he had filed a complaint at the lawyer’s office prior to the attack. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents Seven killed in suspected arson attack in South Korea In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo Seven killed in suspected arson attack in South Korea USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.