The Edo State Police Command on Monday said that its men killed a suspected kidnapper in a gun duel with the police along the Benin-Lagos Expressway. According to a news bulletin endorsed by Chidi Nwabuzor, Edo Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, the incident occurred at Utekon Community, Benin City axis of the expressway. Other members of the criminal gang, the PPRO added, escaped with their weapons, just as he hinted that bush combing operation had commenced to apprehend the fleeing members. The statement read: “On 20/06/2022 At About 0400Hrs, the operatives of Egba Police Divisional Headquarters, Benin City while acting on a distressed call, that a gang of kidnappers/armed robbers blocked Benin-Lagos Expressway By Utekon Community, Benin City. “Immediately, police operatives swung into action and moved to the scene and on sighting the police, the hoodlums engaged the police on a gun duel and in the process, the police operatives neutralised one of the kidnappers while the rest of the gang members escaped with their guns. “A combined bush combing operation is ongoing to arrest the fleeing gang members.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… 