The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) in Osun State has condemned the destruction of the state People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke’s campaign billboards. In a statement issued by the Chairman of the council, Comrade Wale Adebayo, in Osogbo, the state capital on Sunday, IPAC frowned at the acts which could plunge the state into a major political crisis. The council described the destruction as totally unwarranted, barbaric, and runs contrary to sound democratic norms. Adebayo cautioned all the candidate vying for political office to see the election as brotherly contest and not take laws into their hands. He urged security agencies like the Police and Directorate of State Security (DSS) to nip the act in the bud before it generates into a full-blown crisis. “This is a clarion call to the security agencies to remain completely impartial in order to discourage politicians from such acts. They should rather campaign for votes by telling the electorate what they would do differently,” Adebayo said.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…