Nigerian fast-rising singer and songwriter, John Ogugua Nwachukwu, aka John Dreyz, has revealed that his pursuit of a successful music career has cost him many sleepless nights. Speaking about his rising music career and its attendant challenges, the singer pointed out that he has faced a lot of difficult times because he wanted to make his music work and acceptable. When asked about the difficulties he faced and the sacrifices he has made for his career, Dreyz stated, “My biggest challenge is getting recognition and also for people to accept my sound.” “There are many talented musicians in Nigeria, but I hope to make my mark and win the hearts of many fans and music lovers. “My sacrifices would be sleepless nights of thinking and praying for better days in my career.” The singer, who is currently promoting his debut EP, ‘Loverboy,’ stated that while he was not currently working on any new projects, he had been spending a lot of time in the studio. “However, I’m glad that fans are enjoying my song ‘Kolo,’ which features Zinoleesky.” I always feel so good when I see people singing it passionately.” “I do a combination of afrobeat, afro-pop, and afro-fusion,” the singer said when asked to describe his sound. “I am just a cool guy,” the singer said of his guilty pleasures, which include wine, weed, and women. “I don’t do any of those three things very often.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…  John Dreyz sleepless nights… Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…  John Dreyz sleepless nights… How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her…    John Dreyz sleepless nights… 