Bishop, Ijesa North Diocese, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev. Isaac IwabiOlorun Oluyamo, at the weekend, commissioned a newly purchased 300KVA transformer acquired by the church. Speaking at the Programme, Reverend Isaac, added that, the road leading to Rehoboth Prayer Mountain which was constructed by Evang Chief Mrs Florence Olowokure to mark the birthdays of Bishop J.O.K & Prof. T.O.T. Olowokure was also commissioned by the church. He stressed that the Diocesan Board has approved that chalets can be built and donated to the Diocese by individuals, families, Churches or arch-deaconries. The clergyman mentioned other development as the Diocesan Harvest, Donations from Bishop’s Friend, and Synod proceeds since 2019 and said, the work is being done by Mighty Crown & Sons Company, with direct labour at the cost of about Eighteen million (N18,000,000.00). The transformer will service the electricity of the whole Diocesan Headquarters called Anglican City as of now. He however explained that “we are commissioning two projects today which are our own transformer purchased with savings from our meagre income and the road leading to Rehoboth Prayer Mountain which was constructed by Evang Chief Mrs Florence Olowokure to mark the birthdays of Bishop J.O.K & Prof. T.O.T. Olowokure.” “We appreciate the good people of Ijesa North Diocese for their supportive roles and their contributions towards the growth and development at the Diocesan Headquarters. Some sources of our income were realized in the course of this development.  He, however, mentioned the development as the Diocesan Harvest, Donations from Bishop’s Friend, Synod proceeds since 2019 and said, the work is being done by Mighty Crown & Sons Company, with direct labour at the cost of about Eighteen Million (N18,000,000.00). The transformer will service the electricity of the whole Diocesan Headquarters called Anglican City as of now. “As of now, the following developments have been achieved at the Diocesan Headquarters: Vocational & Business Institute, Adebola & Oluranti Ademowo Clinic, Prof. Theophilus Taiwo Olowokure Pre-Varsity, Campground, 2 Chalets which were donated by Olowoye’s and Faseru’s families. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ijesha North Diocese  Ijesha North Diocese Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ijesha North Diocese  Ijesha North Diocese Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.