Barely five days to conducting its presidential convention coming up on June 6 to 8, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has released the composition of sub-committees to take charge of the activities for the convention. A statement issued on Wednesday night and signed by Felix Morka, National Publicity Secretary, disclosed 18 sub Committees for the process. Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and his Imo State counterpart,
Hope Uzodinma, were announced as co-chairmen of the Election Planning Committee. Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed have been assigned to handle the budget while Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwoolu will handle Finance and Logistics. His Ogun State counterpart, Prince Dapo Abiodun will be in charge of Accreditation and Decoration while Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu will handle Security and Compliance to be co-chaired with former Minister of Interior, Gen. Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau. There are also thirteen other subcommittees for Transportation, Accommodation, Media and Publicity, amongst others.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… APC convention: Adamu announces 18 sub-committees Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba APC convention: Adamu announces 18 sub-committees Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice