Cultists on Wednesday invaded the premises of the Osun State University (UNIOSUN) Teaching Hospital Complex, Osogbo with possession of axes, cutlasses, and charms to threaten the management of the hospital to release corpses of their members dumped at the hospital mortuary with immediate effect. The evil perpetrators who stormed the hospital as earlier as 9.00 am of the day laid siege at the entrances, premises and outside of the hospital while a few of them approached medical personnel working in the hospital to release their corpses for them. The trouble that led to pandemonium, however, ensued between them as hospital officials insisted that, laid down protocols must be followed to the letter before the corpse could be released to them while the cultists also threatened to deal with the hospital management if their request is not promptly granted. The ugly development which nearly led to a fiasco between them, saw many health officials retreating and gradually withdrawing from the troubled zone to avoid being brutalised by the violent-looking troublemakers. Many health officials who were not at the scene, took to their heels while mature ones among the workers pleaded with the gang to be patient with them as their request would be attended to in no distance time. However, all their moves to claim their corpses forcefully proved futile as the hospital management refused to compromise their standard. The policemen are later said to have later drifted them away from the hospital premises and came to draft them away. It was learnt that the cultists later conducted themselves in an orderly manner and accepted to follow due process for them to be able to claim the corpses. At the time of filing this report, they were in the process of pleading with the hospital management on how to go about the process.  In his reaction to the development, Mr Afolabi Babatunde, chief medical advisory personnel of the hospital, remarked that, coronavirus tests had been conducted on the dead bodies and that necessary postmortem tests had been carried out while police had also played their roles in the process. He however assured that the corpse would be released after the results of the tests might have been released. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Cultists invade UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital…  Cultists invade UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital…  Cultists invade UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital…