TAJBank Limited, Nigeria’s leading non-interest bank, is set to launch Nigeria’s first private sector Sukuk offering under a N100 billion programme. The bank’s Sukuk offering, which is currently undergoing regulatory approvals, is expected to be launched soon, marking a historic shift from government-dominated Sukuk offerings to a fully private sector-oriented offering in the Nigerian debt markets. TAJBank is launching the instrument under a Mudaraba structure that would afford the non-interest lender opportunity to grow its capital base and by so doing, position it on a strong pedestal to finance large and long-term projects in Nigeria while unlocking investment opportunities in Africa’s largest economy. According to the bank’s board, the Sukuk would be offered in tranches of N10 billion each as soon as regulatory approvals are secured. Commenting on the corporate Sukuk offering during an interactive session with journalists in Abuja, the bank’s Managing Director/CEO, Mr Hamid Joda, explained: “TAJBank’s Sukuk offer, being the first private sector Sukuk offer in Nigeria, would open the door for several Sukuk offers by other private sector entities thereby stimulating investments in critical sectors of the economy leading to national development. “Our aim is to raise the needed funds that would be invested in targeted high-impact sectors that spur job creation and enhance the standard of living of Nigerians,” Joda stressed.  In his remarks at the forum, the Executive Director, Mr Sherif Idi, said: “There are many economic activities or projects that well-meaning Nigerians and companies are unable to fund. The Sukuk is a perfect way of aiding to finance these projects. He further stated that the use of the Sukuk to fund these projects means that investors are incentivised to help the economy develop by creating and producing rather than consuming only.” TAJBank started its operations through its Head Office in Abuja and a branch in Kano. Over the last two years, the hank has accomplished several milestones, including expanding its branch network to 22 within its franchise area. Apart from achieving break even within eight months of operation and remarkably growing its shareholders’ fund and returns on their investment within 12 months, TAJBank recently reported a 433 per cent growth in PBT for the 2021 financial year and significant growth in gross revenue, balance sheet and other performance assessment indicators. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech  Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.