Four persons died while eight others sustained varying degrees of injuries in an accident involving an articulated vehicle and a Mazda bus at Foursquare in Ogunmakin axis on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ogunmakin is located in the Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun. Mr Ahmed Umar, the Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Ogun, who confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta on Sunday, said that the accident occured at 8:45 p.m. on Saturday. Umar explained that the accident was caused by excessive speed and loss of control by the bus driver who rammed the stationed truck. The sector commander explained that the crash involved a CNHTC vehicle marked XA 802 KKM and a Mazda bus with registration number SHK 684 XA. He added that 13 people were involved in the accident which comprised 12 men and a woman, saying that eight people got injured, all men, while four persons died comprising three men and one woman.  Umar noted that the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere while the corpses were deposited at the FOS morgue, Ipara. The sector commander described the crash as an avoidable act if caution had been taken, using a common-sense speed limit, especially as it was raining. He urged motorists to always obey traffic rules and regulations, especially on speed violations. He commiserated with the family of the victims and also enjoined them to contact the FRSC command in the Ogunmakin area of the state for details of the crash and reclaim the properties of the victims recovered from the scene. (NAN) YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Accident claims 4 lives on Lagos-Ibadan expressway Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Accident claims 4 lives on Lagos-Ibadan expressway Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Accident claims 4 lives on Lagos-Ibadan expressway