PASTOR Femi Oladehin, Lead pastor of formerly, the Theikos Doxa Evangelical Ministry, Lagos has stated that the real reason behind the change in the name of the ministry to Supernatural Life Assembly (SLA) was to align with God’s vision and to carry all and sundry along. Speaking during a press briefing at the church premises, last Sunday, Oladehin said that “The name Theikos Doxa has been the official name of our church ever since we started two years ago, a week before lockdown. During that period we built a strong online presence of about 600 members. But recently, we needed to look at the vision God has given us and think of how we could bring together everyone into driving that vision. One of the ways to make this happen is to give everyone a common vision to run with. “The more I prayed about it, the more the Holy Spirit said to me that the name Theikos Doxa means ‘Divine Glory’ and that we were speaking more to him rather than him speaking to us. We prayed about it and the name Supernatural Life Assembly came about. This is a name that comes directly from God. He gave us the name with the direction in which we are to go. Changing was not easy because we were very comfortable with the former name,” he clarified. He added that in line with the change of name of the church, the ministry has also revised its goal. He noted that Supernatural Life Assembly is a group of people that are not just Christians by name but Christians by deed; a group of people who are into the real change of a believer and not just cosmetic change. “For us as a church, the first thing for us is to reach out to the unchurched. To reach out to the people who haven’t felt the impact of God in their lives. We are on a mission to find them, reach them, and impact them. We are interested in the transformation of a person and the transformation of their spirit. We are not into paying lip service to anyone. As we are interested in transforming people, we are also interested in their finance, the way they maintain relationships with people, and their business development skills. We would live in the Supernatural Life that we proclaim,” he concluded. He further revealed that all documents and social media handles of the church has been changed to Salvation Life Assembly to reflect their new identity.   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.