A Federal High Court sitting in Ikorodu has adjourned the hearing in a suit filed by an aspirant in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Ikorodu constituency 2 under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Oluwatosin Onamade against Lagos state chapter of the party, INEC and the acclaimed winner of the primary election in Ikorodu constituency 2, Aro Moshood Aro to 17th of June, 2022. Onamade had challenged the conduct of the election and the results of the primary election and the eligibility of Mr Aro Moshood Abiodun who was declared the winner of the election. Counsel to the plaintiff, Barr. Olajide Adekanye, said, “Hon Justice Iniekenimi Oweibo of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikorodu has restrained an aspirant in the just concluded primary election of the All Progressives Congress, Aro Moshood Abiodun from parading himself as the winner of Lagos State House of Assembly Ikorodu constituency 2 primary elections. Further hearing has been adjourned to 17th June 2022.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants  MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18 Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18 Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18 Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18 I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18 It Is Now Bye To Decency: Crazy Fashion Trends At Owambe Parties Social events around the country have become the avenues of showing off the craziest latest fashion trends. ADEOLA OTEMADE reports that these fashion trends, especially by women who leave little to the imagination, portray the depth of decadence into which the society has fallen…Lagos APC Primary: Court adjourns hearing to June 18  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.