AS the governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun states draw near, the Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN) has called on the electorate to be alive to their responsibility and shun vote selling. This call was contained in a communique in Ibadan signed by the chairman of the Oyo State chapter of the MMPN, Alhaji Ridwan Fasasi, after a monthly meeting of the association hosted by the state’s Ministry of Information. The association noted that the idea of exchanging votes for money which characterised previous elections had brought untold hardship to the masses. The MMPN also reiterated the call by the Independent National Electoral Commission  (INEC) on the electorate to collect their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) at the various offices and designated centres across the country with particular reference to Oyo State with about 750,000 unclaimed PVCs. The association looked into the plight of pensioners in the country, observing that many state governments had failed to pay pensions and gratuities of retirees, thereby subjecting them to hardship. It, therefore called on the affected states to pay the backlogs in the interest of the wellbeing of the senior citizens who, it said, used their productive years to serve.  The association expressed concern about the rate of hard drugs consumption in the country, especially among youths, saying this was not a good omen for the future of the country. The MMPN condemned a reported police attack on the Oyo State correspondent of The Nation, Mr Yinka Adeniran and the alleged shooting of the correspondent of the same newspaper in Osun State, Mr Toba Adedeji, emphasising the need for the police authorities to address the inhuman treatment commonly meted out to journalists by their officers and men. It equally condemned the attack by unknown gunmen on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, urging the police to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Shun vote selling  Shun vote selling Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Shun vote selling  Shun vote selling USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.