The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command, have arrested fifteen suspects in connection with the violence and killing of the late Ahmad Usman, a member of a vigilante group, in the Lugbe area of the FCT on June 4, 2022. According to a statement issued to newsmen in Abuja on Monday, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, and the FCT Commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday said: “The arrest of the suspects follows ongoing investigations into the unfortunate incident and circumstances that led to the killing of the 30-year-old Usman.” He stated. Babaji assured that the Command would get to the root of the matter and bring all the perpetrators to book. The CP, while calling for calm, reiterated that justice would be served in the matter. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents  In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FCT Police arrest 15  FCT Police arrest 15 Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FCT Police arrest 15  FCT Police arrest 15 Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.