President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the renewal of the reappointment of Patience Oniha as the Director-General of the Debt Management Office (DMO) for a second term of five years. The reappointment is in accordance with Section IV (9-i) of the Debt Management Office (Establishment ETC) Act, 2003. Announcing this in a statement on Thursday, Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity), informed that the renewal takes effect from July 1, 2022. According to the statement, “her appointment for a second term was based on the significant achievements recorded by the DMO in the last 5 years, under her leadership. “Amongst the achievements are the introduction of Sukuk and Green Bonds to finance the development of infrastructure where there is a huge gap. “Under her watch, as part of the initiatives to improve the sustainability of the public debt and opening up avenues for raising long-term funds for corporates, the DMO introduced long-term Bonds with tenors of 30 years in the domestic and international markets. “This is aside from attracting diverse investors including retail investors to the FGN Bond Market. “Internally, Oniha introduced reforms to strengthen the DMO, as a critical agency in the public finance ecosystem of the country.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend… Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…  Buhari okays Oniha’s reappointment… How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her…Buhari okays Oniha’s reappointment…  