The Governor of Kogi State, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has decorated his Aide de Camp, ADC Iwanger Ifeoma Akaya after she was recently Promoted from the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) to Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP). The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Onogwu Muhammed, said, the governor stated that her promotion was a result of hard work, commitment, dedication and reward for the merit of service. The President of the Senate, Dr Ahmed Lawal who was on a private visit to the Governor assisted in decorating the officer with her new ranks. Dr Lawal in his brief remarks congratulated the newly elevated officer and urged her to continue to discharge her duties in line with ethical conduct and to continue to make women proud. DSP Ifeoma Akaya is the only female Aide De Camp to a serving Governor in Nigeria. Also decorated by the governor was ASP Kashim Adama who was promoted from an inspector to an Assistant Superintendent of Police.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Gov Bello decorates ADC, others with new ranks MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Gov Bello decorates ADC, others with new ranks USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.