The altar boy to the slain Catholic parish priest of St. Michael Catholic church, lkhabigbo, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, Rev. Father Christopher Odia who was killed by daredevil Fulani kidnappers is presently on a danger list at an undisclosed hospital. A community source at Ikabigbo explained that the alter boy whose name was given as Bernard Tenebe was shot during the bush combing in the agrarian community by a combined team of the local vigilante, police and a detachment of police. In a video which has since gone viral on social media, one of the suspected kidnappers who was apprehended by the local vigilante confessed that he came in from the bush at neighbouring Agbede where they rear cows. The suspected kidnapper said that a local collaborator who resides in Ikabigbo sold the plot to kidnap the man of God to him and the other members of the gang. According to the source, the mass manhunt for the kidnappers and the victim in the bush involved vigilante members from Jattu and the neighbouring Uzairue community. He said that it was during the manhunt that one of the vigilante members, Nurudeen was shot dead by the Fulani herdsmen while the altar boy and one other youth were seriously injured. Undeterred by the killings, the incensed vigilante members arrested two of the gang members, one of who was reportedly burnt to death. The Edo State Police spokesperson, Jennifer Iwegbu has however remained silent on the fate of one of the suspected kidnappers who was mob lynched. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 