THE authorities of  the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, have given stern warning to members of staff and students of the university to desist from presenting fake medical reports to the university for the purpose of defrauding the system. The school said it had detected that such practice had existed for some years and had issued warnings severally against it, but it still persists despite the warnings. The university gave the warning in a statement made available to newsmen by the university’s spokesman, Mr Ademola Adekoya, recently. It said the current warning would be the last to be issued by the university as any worker or student found culpable henceforth would certainly face the consequences of their actions. According to the statement, any medical report from outside the university system that is  submitted to the university at any faculty for one purpose or the other will be subjected to verification by the university’s health centre before such documents can be binding on the university. The management explained that the presentation of fake medical reports for any purpose is tantamount to presentation of false documents to gain undue advantage from the system, and the practice is punishable under the rules and regulations of the university. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants  MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…