Have you ever battled imposter syndrome as a creative? How did you go about it? Did you stop creating contents or you just didn’t pay attention and you moved on? What does it mean to be a creative? You are a creative if you create something for people to engage. It could be podcasts, YouTube videos, articles, tweets, name it. Imposter syndrome also known as fraud syndrome is the internal experience  of believing that you’re not  deserving of the commendations from people that think you’re competent and are good at what you’re doing. This fraud syndrome makes you undermine your competence, and give the accolades for your hard work and achievements to external factors or luck, but yourself. How do you identify that you have imposter syndrome as a creative? It’s important to note that having to deal with imposter syndrome as a creative can be quite subjective; that is, personal or peculiar to the personality of the person. However, to know if you have this syndrome, you could ask these questions.  What are the effects of battling imposter syndrome as a creative?   unworthy of the opportunity to engage people with your contents.  Types of imposter syndrome To deal with imposter syndrome as a creative, you should know the types. This will channel your effort to get better in the right direction. There are several different types of imposter syndrome. Dr Valerie Young, an expert on imposter syndrome, categorized this condition by subtype. Each subtype is defined by a unique type of individual that falls under the umbrella of imposter syndrome. Most people who struggle with this syndrome fall into one or a mix of these subtypes. Imposter syndrome examples include:  This type of imposter syndrome affects someone who wants their ideas to be perfect before they get to work. They want to figure it all out before they start. The perfectionist represents a person who sets unrealistically high standards for themselves. This creative strives to give their absolute best to their content without any room for lapses. One perk of this type of imposter syndrome is that it could impose a great cost to their mental health. The Superhero loves to push really hard because they feel less and believe that they’ll find acceptance in their pushing really hard. A person with this kind of imposter syndrome often struggles with feeling inadequate relative to fellow creatives. Their inspiration for pushing so hard is trying to measure up at all cost. For instance, someone seeking to get certifications in every course possible just to earn the validation of people and to give the “I am the hero” impression. The natural genius represents a person with imposter syndrome that not only struggles with perfectionism, but also sets out to achieve all their goals. If they achieve 95% of their goals, they will beat themselves up for not being able to complete the 5%. These people feel unworthy, guilty and shameful if they cannot easily complete a task or achieve a goal at the first try. The soloist represents a person with imposter syndrome that finds it difficult to ask others for help. They always think that no one will do it better than them. They see it as a moment to prove their worth to people and let them know that they are independent.  They don’t think that any other person is as competent as they are. In fact, they believe that they would ruin things from them. When things don’t happen the way they want, they get really upset and pained. They have extreme difficulties asking others for help. Perhaps they may feel that others are not as competent as themselves or that they must prove their own worth through their productivity. The expert talks about people with imposter syndrome that believe that they must know the answer to every question. And if they don’t, they feel disappointed in themselves. They always want to acquire more knowledge to boost their ego. They may feel like they are less experienced than their colleagues if they do not know an answer or have knowledge on certain topics.  How do you deal with imposter syndrome as a creative? Dealing with imposter syndrome as a creative is not impossible. But it requires you to be intentional about tackling it. Don’t stop creating for the wrong reasons. As a creative, you might have to deal with this syndrome in one way or the other, but remember that you can always navigate life as a creative who has a healthy mindset. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE What is imposter syndrome  What is imposter syndrome  What is imposter syndrome 