Five bandits were neutralized by troops of Operation Whirl Stroke at Untange Council Ward in Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State between Tuesday and Thursday. Lt. Col. Paul Hemba retd. security adviser to governor Samuel Ortom disclosed this to newsmen on Friday in his office in Makurdi. He said that bandits also killed a member of a volunteer guard who was on patrol during the period. Hemba further said that many herdsmen camps were also razed down during an operation within the Katsina-Ala axis. According to the security adviser, the first incidence occurred on Tuesday when some bandits invaded Untange ward in Katsina-Ala local government, adding that the combined team of OPWS and community volunteer guards on patrol repelled them. He said, “The next day one of the community volunteer guards who were on patrol was cornered and killed by bandits in a reprisal attack and troops began to counter them and were able to neutralize three of them.  He added that two of the bandits were killed on Thursday around 4:00 pm by troops of Operation Whirl Stroke. “In all, five bandits were killed by troops while bandits killed one volunteer guard who was on patrol of the area. Hemba regretted that the local bandits now form an alliance with herdsmen within the area to unleash terror on villagers. He however said that with the efforts of the state government and security agencies, crime had reduced in Katsina-Ala axis. As a result of the development, Hemba said that the state government may soon relax the embargo placed on the use of motorcycles and Toyota Corolla popularly known as duck yanch in the axis. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Troops neutralize five bandits  Troops neutralize five bandits Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Troops neutralize five bandits  Troops neutralize five bandits Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.