A young girl identified as Amarachi Iwunze has been allegedly raped to death by a suspected internet fraudster, Ifeanyi Osuji, popularly called Yahoo boy in the Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo State. The victim was said to have been invited over by Osuji, a native of the same community on Saturday. Nigerian Tribune learnt that she was reportedly drugged by Osuji after which he allegedly had carnal knowledge. The incident was said to have resulted in Iwunze’s death on Sunday morning while she was still in Osuji’s house. It was further gathered that immediately after the news got to the community, some youths burnt Osuji’s house after destroying his belongings. A viral video making the rounds on social media shows the rampaging youth pulling down the gate of the house said to have belonged to Osuji. Smoke was seen coming from the main building, indicating that the house was on fire. It was gathered that the suspect Osuji had reported fled before the arrival of irate youths in the community. When contacted, the Spokesman of Imo State Police Command, CSP Michael Abattam, confirmed the incident and said that the command is already investigating the matter. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…