Kogi State Police Command has denied a trending video purportedly on Abuja-Lokoja road, claiming that some suspected bandits have loaded two trailers with guns and have kidnapped passengers in seven buses. In a statement issued on Friday by the Kogi State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP William Ovye Aya which was made available to Tribune Online, the video was a product of mischief. The Command said, it swiftly moved into action and the intelligence at its disposal showed that such didn’t happen on Abuja-Lokoja Highway even as the poster was not specific where the incident took place. The statement read: “The attention of the Kogi State Police Command has been drawn to the video trending that along Abuja–Lokoja road, over 500 buses are parked on the road due to two trailers conveying guns and some suspected bandits blocking the highway with buses reportedly diverted into the forest. “The Command wish to state unequivocally that, the statement is not only the figment of the imagination of the author but totally false, malicious and highly mischievous. The incident as alleged did not happen in Kogi State and such was not reported anywhere in the state. “The author ought to have mentioned the specific location where the purported incident happened, rather than being vague. More so, no indication of when the said incident occurred. Situation reports have been received from Area Commanders, DPOs, Tactical Commanders, and other security agencies, but no such incident recorded in the state.  “Consequently, the Commissioner of Police urged all peace-loving citizens of Kogi State and the country at large to discountenance such mischievous information trending on social media and go about their lawful businesses and activities.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police dismiss trending video  Police dismiss trending video Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police dismiss trending video  Police dismiss trending video USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.