A yet-to-be-identified woman has given birth and abandoned the day-old baby in a nearby bush where it could be immediately sighted in Bogoro LGA of Bauchi State. Security agencies in the area as well as the LGA authorities are in search of the unknown lady as disclosed by a social worker, Mrs Fibi Hassan who spoke to newsmen. She said that the unknown lady abandoned the newborn baby after she successfully delivered it on Thursday near a bush in Sarkin Kudu, Bogoro. Fibi Hassan said that “yes this our office received a report that a newborn baby boy was abandoned in the bush in Sarkin Kudu. Before we got there the newborn baby has been picked up by one of the women in the area who took care of the baby.” She added that “The baby is now doing well and in good condition. We have also informed the security and Investigations are ongoing to uncover the identity of the lady.” The Social Worker also said that the social welfare office will continue to take care of the baby until the investigation is completed and the person identified.  “We appreciate the good people of sarkin kudu and the women who took care of the baby and we appeal to the mother of the baby to come and claim her newborn baby,” she further said. Mr. Luka Danladi a resident of Sarkin Kudu narrated, “We woke up this morning with the sad news that a newborn baby boy had been abandoned near a bush here.” According to him, “The mother of the baby left him crying on top of one rock with his face covered to the ground and we quickly told some of our women who rushed to rescue the new baby.” Luka Danladi stressed that “The mother left the newborn baby without cutting the placenta without clothes with the intention that the baby will just die before daybreak. But thank God the baby is saved from danger.” According to him, the newborn baby was born in the middle of the night on Wednesday and the mother left the baby in the bush. “Though I want to tell you that we are not happy with this development here, we thank God for the fact that as human beings, we have to take care of the newborn baby,” he also said. He said that “The baby has been handed over to the Social Workers. As I am talking to you we are presently in the market shopping for baby clothes and milk for the baby.” The DSS office in Bogoro LGA also confirmed the incident and said action has been taken to ensure that the mother of the newborn baby is identified as contained in a statement by Gomna James, Information Officer, Bogoro LGA. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…One-day-old baby abandoned  One-day-old baby abandoned Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…One-day-old baby abandoned  One-day-old baby abandoned Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.