Armed kidnappers holding the District Head of Panyam in the Mangu local government area of Plateau State, His Royal Highness, Aminu Derwan, have demanded a ransom of N150 million before setting him free. The traditional ruler was abducted in his palace on Monday by kidnappers numbering about twenty and whisked to an unknown destination thus creating tension and apprehension in the local government area. A source close to the family disclosed that the abductors at about 4:34 pm on Monday reached out to the family to confirm that they have him and demanded a ransom of N150 million. “They have called today again but yet to reduce the ransom. We are still talking with them with the hope that they would either reduce the ransom or release him on compassionate ground,” said the source. The contact established with the kidnapped might have calmed down fray nerves and doused the apprehension about the whereabouts of the traditional ruler. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Alfred Alabo, said men of the Command are working assiduously to track down the perpetrators of the dastardly act. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 