A toilet wall has collapsed and killed an only child and two other children in a compound in Iyara, Warri, Delta State. The incident occurred on Saturday, June 4, 2022 at the popular slum in Warri, Warri South Local Government Area. The deceased children, two boys and a girl, were said to be between the ages of three and five, with their names not made known. It was gathered that the children were beside the wall when it collapsed as a result of the windy rainfall that occurred on that day. One of them was said to be the only child of his mother while the other victims belong to a deaf-mute woman. It was gathered that the windy downpour of that fateful day caused of the collapse of the wall and that children were by the side of the wall when it collapsed.  When the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Delta State Police Command, Asaba, DSP Bright Edafe, was contacted, he could not immediately confirm the report. But the Chairman of Atise -Olu (also called Iyara) community, Mr Eju Akubor, when contacted, confirmed the story to our correspondent. He expressed regret that there was no health centre in the area where children would have been rushed to for first aid when the dastardly incident occurred. He told our correspondent that there was an 11-year abandoned health project in the area with the population of over 4,000 persons. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Collapsed toilet wall kills  Collapsed toilet wall kills Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Collapsed toilet wall kills  Collapsed toilet wall kills USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.