The National Chairman of the Allied People’s Movement (APM), Yusuf Dantalle has emerged as the Presidential candidate of the party for the 2023 presidential election. The party also expelled six suspended National Working Committee (NWC) members and three state chairmen over alleged anti-party activities. Dantalle who is the party’s only presidential candidate was elected by delegates at the party’s special convention held at its secretariat in Abuja. A statement by APM National Secretary, Oyedeyi Adebayo, said that Dantalle “will now contest the 2023 presidential election with Bola Tinubu (APC), Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Peter Obi (Labour Party) and Chekwas Okorie (APGA).” APM also set up a five-man committee to investigate its finances – expenditure and income; with another five-man committee set up to review and amend the party’s constitution for future elections. Those expelled for Anti-Party activities include former National Treasurer, Rose D.S. Gear, former National Financial Secretary, Nasir Baba and Abubakar Ahmed, National Welfare Officer.  Others are, Inyama – Southeast, Felix Idowu- National Youth Leader, Nasir Mohammed Sidi Aliyu – National Publicity Officer, Abram Gyabo- Nasarawa State Chairman, Thomas Akosu – former FCT Chairman and Nuhu Soba, former Kaduna State Chairman. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Dantalle clinches APM Presidential ticket Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Dantalle clinches APM Presidential ticket USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.