 According to him, everything is set for the election: “You will not know who is stepping down or has stepped down until we are about to start the election. “There are many people who may choose to step down at some stage of the process either on the convention ground or otherwise. “However, our constitution is very clear, even if it is only two people remaining in the race, there will be an election. “I do not know officially who has stepped down because I cannot rely on the media reports. “The reliable one will be when aspirants have been given permission in the programme to come and speak and they declare that they are stepping down, that is in line with the constitution.”  He expressed satisfaction with the level of preparations so far, adding that all the committees for the convention especially the planning committee had worked very hard. “I am very happy about the state of readiness of the convention, particularly the election process itself,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…We’re yet to know if any aspirant stepped down ―  Bagudu Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…We’re yet to know if any aspirant stepped down ―  Bagudu Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…We’re yet to know if any aspirant stepped down ―  Bagudu Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.