Following the announcement of the commencement of the airlift of Nigerian pilgrims to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Hajj 2022 Independent Hajj Reporters, a civil society organisation that monitors and reports Hajj activities in Nigeria and Saudi Arabia has called on the Federal Government to provide maximum security at Hajj Camps and airports. IHR in a statement signed by its national coordinator, Mohammed Ibrahim, on Sunday, calls for all-inclusive and coordinated security architecture to secure pilgrims’ Hajj camps across the country. The statement said “As Nigeria prepares to airlift about 43,000 pilgrims through about 12 embarkation points, we plead and urge the Federal Government to provide round the clock security at Hajj camps and Airports that serves as embarkation points for Nigerian pilgrims. The CSO said the call becomes imperative in view of the fact that most Hajj camps are located outside city centres compelling pilgrims to travel a few kilometres to the camps and airports. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “We urge the Federal Government to raise the baseline for Hajj camps and Airport security in pilgrims embarkation points by putting in place strengthened security measures, both seen and unseen.” Airlift of pilgrims consists of the first phase when pilgrims will be airlifted to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and second phase when pilgrims will be airlifted back to Nigeria. In view of the current security challenges, NAHCON, States Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Boards, Security agencies, local security outfits, and other well-intended individuals should collaborate to enhance the security of our dear pilgrims throughout this Hajj Period. IHR specifically urge NAHCON to liaise with the Heads of Various Security agencies like the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Director of State Security Service, Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps, and local security outfits to form an effective synergy towards providing security for pilgrims across the country. We Will Sanction Tinubu For Insulting Buhari ― Adamu, APC National Chairman Hajj Airlift: CSO calls for maximum security at Hajj camps, airports Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.