IT was all moment of joy and excitement in God’s presence as the General Overseer of the World Conqueror Evangelical Ministry, Badagry, Lagos State, Pastor Monday Nwajiri, blessed his members with financial gifts, food items and other exciting provisions as the main activities marking his birthday celebration. The Abia State-born cleric, fondly called Lion added another year on June 15and seized the event to empower his followers, especially the underprivileged, at the Church auditorium in Lagos. The auditorium was filled with excitement as members could not hide their feelings towards the gesture of Pastor Nwajiri. Several eulogies rented the airasbeneficiaries described him as an ardent giver, while otherssaid he is ‘a man after God’s heart.’ In his remarks, Nwajiri expressed his gratitude to God for the gift of life and divine protection, adding “God is the reason we are all gathered here. I thank my wife, Mrs Blessed Nwajiri and my beautiful children and everyone that has contributed to the success of God’s work. “I am not giving because I have plenty or because I want to show off; I am doing this because I understand that things are hard in the country right now. This is important so as to lighten your burden. Once again, I say thank you. We must not relent to pray for Nigeria and for a peaceful 2023 election.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…  Continuous Voters Registration: Bauchi declares Monday public holiday Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG Continuous Voters Registration: Bauchi declares Monday public holiday NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba 