The Assistant Shepherd in charge of Celestial Church of Christ (CCC), SBJ Oshoffa parish, Oluwaseun Ajose and a Sunday School teacher, Dagunro Abayomi, were kidnapped by four suspected gunmen, on Monday. The Shepherd In Charge of the church, Oluwatomisin Ehuwajomo, said the incident happened at about 11.03 pm, and that the abductors had reached out demanding a N50 million ransom. Ehuwajomo urged all security agencies in the state to rise up to the occasion in rescuing the victims unhurt. “When my assistant called me almost two hours after they left, the kidnappers initially refused to speak with me but on his third attempt, they spoke with me and requested N50 million ransom. “I told them that, I am a servant of God and I don’t receive a salary. I have spoken to the commissioner of police and they are on it,” he said. Tribune Online recalled that kidnappers had invaded another worship place around the same axis, last year October. It was gathered that a joint security patrol had been launched after the hoodlums. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said he was yet to be briefed on the incident. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…  Kidnappers abduct two church leaders… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…  Kidnappers abduct two church leaders… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…  Kidnappers abduct two church leaders…