The presiding Bishop and General Superintendent of Grace of God Mission International, Bishop Paul Nwachukwu, has said that Nigeria is a secular state and that a Muslim/Muslim ticket for the 2023 presidential election is unacceptable to Christians. Nwachukwu admonished two leading political parties that have chosen Muslims as their flag bearer to remember that choosing Muslims as their running mates also will amount to the neglect of Christians. Delivering his sermon on Sunday, with the titled: ‘the battle I will like to lose’, he said: “I want the political class to bear in mind that Nigeria is a secular nation and that in choosing their running mates, another Muslim would not be tolerated. “Nigeria belongs to all of us, and every part of the country and religion is important. Choosing Muslims as their running mates will amount to neglecting Christians,” Nwachukwu said. While Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has chosen Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a northern Muslim as presidential candidate, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) settled for a southern Muslim, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  The Bishop charged Christians all over the country to ensure they have their PVCs, saying that this is not the time to be indecisive about whether to participate in electoral processes or not. He told his congregation that their only chance of participating in choosing a leader for the country was by participating in the ongoing voter registration exercise. He also called on INEC to make the process seamless for the people, noting that the electorates are now very aware, and are ready to participate in the processes that will lead to the enthronement of a new leader in 2023. The Bishop blamed the resurgence of idolatry on recent barbaric killings in the country, especially the attack in Owo, Ondo State, saying that it is targeted at Christianity as a religion while urging them to rise up and fight their battle spiritually. How Gunmen Attacked Ondo Church Killing Over 50 During Mass 2023: Muslim/Muslim tickets unacceptable to Christians, Anambra Bishop warns PDP, APC