Zig Ziglar once said, “You don’t build a business, you build people then people build the business.” You should read that again. How can continuity in business be achieved? Based on personal observation, the average Nigerian has an idea that could turn into a business that he or she can make profit from, but how long would such a business last? I have seen quite a number of people with ideas, create awareness about it, start a business, advertise on WhatsApp status, on the media, or even in-person and after a few weeks or months they abruptly stop. Like the quote in the earlier paragraph explains, you don’t start with the mindset of building a business; you invest in people that would in turn build up your business.  You can have a business that could thrive for as long as you desire if you build systems that work. Am I displacing the place of creativity and ideas? No. Creativity in business also counts but is not enough. What shows that your business can stand the test of time are the systems you build in relation to your business. Continuity in business is achievable when you build people. Is it enough to be creative to start a thriving business in Nigeria? Does creativity guarantee continuity? In Nigeria today, a larger percentage of people that have a business started it because of the need to survive and make something out of their lives. I have seen students sell at school just to make a living since there is very little their parents can afford. I have seen office workers sell things just to add yo their fixed income. Imagine a student who has to take care of himself because his family is unable to send money for handouts, food, transport, and his upkeep in general. You need systems for continuity in business.  Yes, systems. You need systems that would actively work in your presence and when you’re not there. Imagine having to travel out of town for a project that would last for two months. What happens to your business? Does it remain on hold till the time you are ready? That’s not good enough for you. You need a business that would work in your absence and earn you money while you are not there. To ensure continuity in business, your business should not be solely tied to you. Allow others hold the fort for you, but first teach and build them. How do you build a working system? IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to Business News Daily’s Doña Storey, an OPEN Mentorship Institute mentor and American Express OPEN advisor on procurement, mentors can help their mentees identify and avoid business pitfalls, and work through the challenges ahead of them.  Potential systems are not far-fetched. You have friends, bring them on board. Make good use of relationship with your colleagues. Partner with your spouse. Make good use of the relationship you have with your course mate. Organize paid or free classes, teach people what you know and build a system or team from there. Network and let people know what you’re up to. Seek partnership with people with like passion and dreams. Creativity is great, but creativity is not enough. Continuity in your business is what stands you out and gives meaning to your business. If you want to run a long-term business, you don’t want to die shortly and have no one run the legacy. You don’t want to be absent for a while and your business stops operation because of you. You don’t want all your hard work to go down the drain without having support systems that ensure things run smoothly in your absence. In conclusion, you can build a system that works. However, it requires time, your attention, hard work, efforts and resources.. But in the end it will pay off. Take a few seconds to imagine what it’d be like to have a business that is doing well and making profit in your absence. What will you do differently starting from now? Reference  USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.