Hundreds of residents from Kwari village have fled their small community and taken refuge in a primary school in Jibiya town the headquarters of Jibiya Local Government Area of Katsina State as a result of the invasion by the bandits. It was gathered that over 80 people were kidnapped and taken to a forest by the invaders. Speaking in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service on Thursday, one of the women who escaped the onslaught narrated how they were forced to leave the village by the hoodlums. She said ” they came with full force at 5.30 pm on Wednesday and invaded us, we were not aware of their coming. They opened fire, shot sporadically and burnt down shops and our food barns .” “They kidnapped people, men and women, little children who cannot even talk. They took them to the forest. They took about 80 people to the forest. “We did a head count later, we found that about 80 of our people were taken away by the bandits. They are these bush Fulani people; they took even pregnant women away,” she stated.  On how she and others escaped, she said they had to run away from Kwari village and moved to the central primary school in Jibiya town. ” We are here lying down in a humiliating manner. Not even mats to lie on. We are all lying on the bare ground. “ ” When the bandits left, we looked and found out that those taken away were up to 80. In some houses, they took 5, 10 and took them to the forest . Even our little children .” Narrating their ordeal she disclosed they need help. ” Truly, we are in need of help. We need assistance because we are in a pitiable condition . Please help us, Wallahi some husbands don’t know where their wives are. Some wives cannot find their husbands. Children cannot find their mothers, some mothers don’t know where their children are,” she said. According to BBC reports attempt to get the police spokesman SP Gambo Isa to respond to their inquiries was not possible. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Bandits kidnap 80 villagers in Katsina Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG Bandits kidnap 80 villagers in Katsina USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.