According to the New York Times, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook in 2019 made known his plans to integrate three of the world’s largest messaging platforms – WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger and Instagram. This plan was brought to fruition in year 2020 and the advantages are discussed  in this article. Cross posting Linking your social  media accounts helps you synchronize your posts on all the three platforms. When your Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram accounts are linked, when you post a content on one of the platforms, a notification pops up asking if you want to publish the same content on your other social media accounts. This saves you the stress and time of republishing similar contents on your different social media accounts as your content are published at the same time. Ease of login details When your social media accounts are linked, you do not require separate login information and this reduces the number of information and passwords you need to save or remember. For instance, you can login to your  Instagram account using your Facebook account if they are linked. Security of profile Linking your social media accounts provides the social media algorithms a 100% probability that these accounts belong to the same person thus guarantees the safety of your profile details. Brand visibility It helps you as a brand owner to easily run your Ads, unify your content and upload to different platforms simultaneously, carry out more strategic advertising campaigns, and helps you reach out more to your target audience.  Other advantages include the opportunity to connect with same individuals on different social media platforms, getting a business account on Instagram, running of Ads on Instagram and so on. As the popular saying goes, there are always two sides to a coin and the other side to this coin is that when hackers  get access to one of your linked accounts they can also get access to other linked accounts. However, a solution has been provided to this through the 2-step verification process and sending of  a  verification code in cases of suspicion in any of the accounts. As a bonus, below are practical steps you can follow to set up your Facebook page and link your social media accounts ( Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram) If you do not have a Facebook Page, then you need to set up one and below are the steps to set up a Facebook page. If you follow the instructions listed in this article to the latter, linking your social media accounts ( Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram) will only be IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram Accounts  Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram Accounts  Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram Accounts 