AN Ibadan, Oyo State-based cleric, Sheikh Tajudeen AbdulKareem Al-Adaby, has described last Sunday’s attack on Saint Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, in which many worshippers were massacred, as a tragedy that left all Ahlus Sunnah, Muslims whose beliefs and teachings are truly in accordance with the Noble Qur’an, Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad and his Noble Companions, with heavy hearts. Sheikh AbdulKareem, popularly known as Baba l’Agbeni, also said that all true Muslims are vehement in their condemnation of the killing. The cleric stated these while reacting, in an interview with the Nigerian Tribune, to the brutal church attack that has attracted global condemnation. According to him, the hearts and prayers of all genuine Muslims are with the families of the murdered and injured victims as well as the government and people of Ondo State. Sheikh AbdulKareem, who is the founder of Khayrul Adaby Arabic and Islamic Institute, Apete, Ibadan, described the attack as barbaric, saying it was surprising that such an incident happened in the South-West which, he said, is reputed for enjoying high degrees of interconnectedness, mutual respect and tolerance between Muslims and Christians. “Unlike some other parts of the country, Muslims and Christians are interconnected with one another in the South-West. There is hardly any family in this region that does not have a mix of Muslim and Christian members. In view of this, we mourn with our fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters at this very sad moment. We don’t want occurrences like this again in our land.  “I use this opportunity to also condemn the murder of a pregnant Muslim woman, Harira and her four children in Anambra State. We call on the  authorities in the country to redouble their efforts and ensure that tragedies like this that leave bad taste in the mouth are forestalled,” he said. The cleric urged all Nigerians and people around the world to unite in condemning the Owo attack as a satanic act perpetrated by evil people and avoid any temptation to give the incident any religious colouration. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…All genuine Muslims  All genuine Muslims Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…All genuine Muslims  All genuine Muslims USA based company is currently accepting Nigerian partners, the goal is simple, to show you how to earn US Dollars from the comfort of your home. You will be guided on how to earn as much as $3000 to $5000 monthly (₦1.8 million to ₦3 million). Step by step assistance provided. Click here to start.