A group, the Concerned Yoruba Muslim Scholars in Nigeria (CONYORMS), has called for the emergence of a Muslim presidential candidate of South West extraction from the All Progressives Congress (APC). The APC is still in the process of selecting its presidential candidate from among its aspirants from across the six geopolitical zones across the country. CONYORMS, at a press conference addressed by its acting president general, Sheikh AbdurRasheed Mayaleke, on Tuesday in Abuja, said Muslims in Yorubaland had been relegated to the background over the years when it comes to the issue of the presidency. The group said since the main opposition party in the country, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had settled for a Northerner as its presidential candidate against the party’s rotation of power between the North and the South, the ruling APC should choose a southern Muslim as its presidential candidate, “more so that there is underlying agreement at the inception of the party’s formation in 2014” and quoting from Qur’an 17:34 which reads: “And fulfil the covenant, for you will be called to account regarding the covenant.” It argued that the trio of Senator Bola Tinubu; former governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole, were South West Muslims that are qualified for the topmost job in the country. The group said it was meeting with the leadership of the APC to see why a Muslim president from the South West should become the president next year.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Muslim scholars’ group  Muslim scholars’ group Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Muslim scholars’ group Muslim scholars’ group Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.