RIDING on the belief that Central Banks are mostly aligned, the recent 150 basis points Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) hike of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) after 70 months, has conformed with Central Banks of four countries that have held Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meetings in May 2022. The Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria on Tuesday, May 24, 2022 voted unanimously to raise the benchmark interest rate to 13 per cent after two years of expansionary monetary policy. Available records show that the United States (US) also raised the interest rate to 1.0 per cent with inflation down to 8.3 per cent. The United Kingdom (UK) raised its rate to 1.0 with inflation at 9.0 per cent, India raised to 4.4 per cent with inflation at 7.79 per cent, China raised to 3.7 per cent with inflation at 2.1 per cent and Indonesia 3.5 per cent with inflation at 3.47 per cent. Consequently, the major Central Banks such as the U.S. Fed, the Bank of England, European Central Bank and Bank of Canada have provided strong guidance of a progressive shift away from monetary policy accommodation to drive market interest rates which may ultimately impact capital flows away from emerging market economies. According to the Lagos-based Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited, 36 countries raised interest rates in the penultimate month with only Russia reducing interest rates after it had increased rates to 12 per cent per annum (p.a) earlier to protect its currency. The firm noted that inflation has consistently surpassed the CBN’s target range of six to nine per cent, explaining that inflation targeting is a Central Bank’s strategy of adjusting monetary policy to achieve a specific inflation rate  According to a recent analysis by the Financial Times of London, Central Banks are raising rates rapidly in the most widespread tightening of monetary policy for more than two decades laying bare the reversal of their previous historically loose stance. Policymakers around the world, it stated, have announced more than 60 increases in current key interest rates in the past three months, according to an FT analysis of central banking data — the largest number since at least the start of 2000. The figures illustrate the sudden and geographically widespread reversal of the very accommodative monetary policies adopted since the global financial crisis in 2008 and boosted further during the coronavirus pandemic. Interest rates hovered near unprecedented lows in most advanced economies for the past decade and in some cases went negative. The Financial Times analysts noted that the sudden shift in policy comes as inflation has reached multi-decade highs in many countries, fuelled by soaring energy and food costs since Russia invaded Ukraine in February.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba US: Three dead in Iowa church shooting following Biden gun speech  Do you need easy access to Dollars? Earn thousands of Dollars from the US Stock options business and get paid in Dollars weekly. Those that invested $500 in a company called Microsoft got back $750 plus their initial investment 150%= $1250 profit, we help our clients achieve this every week. Click here to ask for proof.