Research from Harvard has it that the mind wanders on average, 47% of the time. On practising mindfulness, have you caught yourself reading a book or an article and you are a few paragraphs gone then it dawns on you that you never really paid attention to what you read? I can also relate. According to Dr. Dana Direnzo, mindfulness means “Present moment awareness”. The ability to be in the moment without judgement. This is a profound definition. As simple as this definition looks, it’s not that easy to be practicing mindfulness without thinking about the past or future, or focusing on the present without judging yourself. It appears difficult, but the beautiful thing is that it is achievable. Note that the past or future could mean events that took place a day or hours before and events that could take place hours or days after. I just mentioned that because we tend to limit the scope of our thoughts when we hear those words – past and future. Have you judged yourself for something you thought was unforgivable, or felt a sense of shame and thought that you were not enough? How did you feel afterwards? Let me guess, you couldn’t take your mind off it, and the feelings and thoughts kept expanding in your mind. Here’s why that happened. What you put your mind to grows bigger and stronger in your mind. That brings me to the heart of the matter. What then should you do? This is where practicing mindfulness comes to play.   I’ll start with a quote given by Dr. Shauna Shapiro in a TEDx talk, “Perfection isn’t possible, but transformation is”. According to her, mindfulness is how people are transformed. You would agree with me that being present is not easy, and the mind wanders quite a lot. As mentioned earlier, research from Harvard has it that “The mind wanders 47% of the time”. So how then should one give themselves to practising mindfulness? By training your mind on how to be present and intentionally not worrying about the past or future. Why do you need to train your mind? The mind has the tendency to encourage judgement, sense of shame, the feeling of not being enough, and the thought of not being deserving of good things maybe as a result of mistakes you made in the past. It could be anything. According to Dr. Shauna, meditating on judgement grows judgement. So when you meditate on those negative feelings, they grow. So, to answer this question, why do you need to train your mind? You practise what you want to grow. You practise what you want to expand. You practise what you want to see as results.  Practicing mindfulness is beneficial and healthy for you. It will affect you in ways that will change you or transform you positively. Mindfulness does the following:  There is a phenomenon that occurs when people attach their happiness to something, someone or an event. Happiness is a state of the mind and should not be solely influenced by external things. Emphasis on solely. Someone once asked, is it not pretentious and silly to act like you don’t have a past and a future. No way, that’s not what mindfulness is about. It doesn’t deny that you have a past, and a future ahead. What practising mindfulness teaches is to be kind to yourself. It teaches you to keep worry in check. Because worry doesn’t make you productive. It doesn’t help you handle situations that may arise with your past and future in perspective. In conclusion, be kind to yourself. The way you’ll be kind to someone else and show them love and perhaps go all out for them, show yourself love and be kind. Treat yourself gently. Don’t be hard on yourself. Allow yourself to enjoy love and kindness from you. Give yourself to practising mindfulness, and be kind while you are at it. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Art Of Practicing Mindfulness  Art Of Practicing Mindfulness  Art Of Practicing Mindfulness