It was shocking news for the lovers of Funke Akindele and her ex-husband Abdul Bello popularly known JJC Skillz as the latter announced that things have been really difficult for them and they have both separated. According to him, he had to move out of the house three months ago at Funke Akindele’s insistence and apart from the public appearance they both had at the just concluded African Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA), they have not been able to sit down in an amicable manner to discuss the future of their relationship. In an Instagram post today Thursday, June 30th, he wrote: “Dear Friends and family I need to let you know that Funke and I have separated. While it lasted we shared a lot of things together and have created 2 beautiful children. The last two years have been extremely difficult for us. I know I have tried my best to fix things but I believe it is beyond repair now. “3 months ago and at Funke’s insistence I moved out of the house and apart from AMVCA have not been able to get Funke to sit down in an amicable manner to discuss the future of our relationship. I’m making this announcement so that the public is clear that we both are pursuing separate lives. “We still have issues that need to be addressed such as the custody and wellbeing of our children which is paramount as well as business interests which need to be disentangled but I have no doubt that these will be resolved one way or the other.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…  Lunatics Have Taken Over Affairs Of Nigeria ― Obi  