The winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Yobe North Senatorial District primaries, Bashir Sheriff Machina, has disclosed that he will not step down for Senate President Ahmad Lawan. He said he was approached by some people to step down, but that he wouldn’t. In a letter, he personally signed and addressed to the national chairman of his party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu on Monday, June 13, 2022, obtained by the Nigerian Tribune, he wrote, “I write to reaffirm my continual aspiration as the All Progressives Congress unequivocal senatorial candidate for Yobe North Senatorial district, following my clearance, participation and victory at the party primaries where I polled 289 votes out of the 300 total votes cast. “I write to reaffirm that I remain committed to the mandate which I won at the primaries, and I have not in any form or manner communicated otherwise. “I have been informed of a purported malicious and mischievous report an insinuation to the contrary. “Please note that I never at any time signed or communicated in any form any intent to vacate the mandate which was won at the primaries. “I am totally committed to my mandate and am working to deliver Yobe North Senatorial District to our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC).” Recall, that the Senate President contested the APC presidential ticket and lost. He had been representing Yobe North Senatorial District at the National Assembly for 15 years.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… IPOB Not On UK’s List Of Terrorist Organisations — British High Commission The British High Commission has debunked reports circulating in the media and online that the UK Government has added the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to the UK’s list of terrorist groups or organisations banned under UK law.  These reports are untrue, it declared.