The Labour Party (LP), has said it would not compromise the principle of social-religious inclusion and settle for a Christian Christian ticket being debated by other parties for her 2023 presidential ticket. Chairman of the Labour Party, Barr. Julius Abure, said this in Abuja, on Monday, while speaking in commemoration of Democracy Day. He said that for fairness, equity and inclusion, the party would not alter the principles of federal character in its choice of a Vice Presidential candidate, to run the with Labour Party. Abure who said the decision lies with the Presidential candidate, Peter Obi to make, maintained that the party which belongs to Nigerian workers, would not compromise on the diversity of the Nigerian workforce and membership of the Labour Party. “While I want to say that it may be too premature for me to speak, and the constitution also gives the Presidential candidate the right to nominate his Vice Presidential Candidate, I feel it would be more proper for the presidential candidate to answer. “However, I want to assure you that as a party that is reasonable; as a party that believes in equity and justice; as a party that believes in social justice and equal opportunity for all, a vice-presidential candidate that is widely accepted, with powerful credentials, is most likely going to come from the Northern region, there is no doubt about that.” Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents  In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Labour party to pick Labour party to pick Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Labour party to pick  Labour party to pick