The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has disowned a document circulating on social media as his blueprint for the nation. The Tinubu Campaign Organisation in a statement at the weekend admitted knowledge of the document perceived as the APC presidential candidate manifesto. Bayo Onanuga, Director, Media and Communication, Tinubu Campaign Organisation described the “blueprint’ in circulation as “merely a draft proposal and suggestions on the programme he should implement.” Onanuga said that the manifesto being shared mostly via WhatsApp and Facebook is not the official campaign manifesto of the APC presidential candidate. He maintained that a thorough, embracing document would be presented in September when the APC presidential candidate is expected to officially flag of his campaign. The statement read in part: “The TCO hereby formally dissociates Asiwaju Tinubu from the document.  “In a press release signed on Sunday, the Campaign Organisation’s Director of Media and Communication, Mr Bayo Onanuga said that the manifesto being shared mostly via WhatsApp and Facebook is not the official campaign manifesto of the APC presidential candidate. “Asiwaju Tinubu, in consultation with the party, experts in various fields and a broad section of the populace, through an empirical and evidence-based approach, is working on an all-embracing manifesto that will be presented to Nigerians when it is ready before the official campaign begins in September. “While acknowledging that the manifesto in circulation was prepared by some senior associates of the APC presidential candidate, Onanuga said the manifesto was a private initiative, which Tinubu has not personally endorsed and accepted. “I want to place it on record that the manifesto being circulated via social media platforms and already published by a section of the mainstream media is not the official Manifesto of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and All Progressives Congress for the 2023 general election. “While our presidential candidate appreciates the spirit and efforts of his associates that produced the document being passed around mostly on WhatsApp, we want to clearly state that the document is an unofficial document and Tinubu can not be held accountable on any of the issues raised in the document. “The Presidential candidate and APC are currently working on an all-embracing manifesto that will inspire the confidence of Nigerians. When the official policy document of Tinubu is ready it will be formally presented to Nigerians and our candidate will be in a position to defend every word that will be contained therein. “We appreciate the interest and enthusiasm of Nigerians to know about the programmes and policy options Asiwaju Tinubu will pursue in government when elected. He is a tested and experienced leader who will bring his knowledge and expertise to run a government that will meet the aspiration and yearnings of our people across every sector.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Tinubu disowns viral manifesto…  Tinubu disowns viral manifesto…