Comic Yoruba actor, Wale Akorede, otherwise known as Okunnu has lamented the poor state of things in the country, particularly as prices of commodities continue to stay high. Worried by the insecurity also pervading every part of the country, Okunnu in a video shared on his Instagram page called out political leaders and urged them to salvage the situation and rescue the country. Okunnu who insisted the video was not meant to create comic relief as he’s known for, stressed that with the way Nigeria continues to sink and its people suffering, something has to be done to return the country to the path of prosperity. He claimed that Nigerian leaders destroyed the country and are not bothered about the well-being of its citizens as long as their bread remained buttered. Livid Okunnu continued to rant: “Let me make it abundantly clear, “We are seeing a finished Nigeria and those who should rise to the occasion seem unbothered. What we hear now is the 2023 elections and who becomes this and that. We must continue to speak truth to power to save Nigeria from sinking.” Nigeria, according to Okunnu is finished, insisting that nothing good appears to be coming out of the country as of today. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend.  Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 