It was another big moment of celebration and encomiums for US-based Nigerian singer, Emmanuel Powers, otherwise known as Shugar Powers as he added another feather to his cap recently. The rising music star who is not new to winning international recognitions was once again decorated with Shining Star Award at the recently organised Premium Night Awards. The event which was held in the city of Indianapolis in Indiana State, US saw a large number of music acts and entertainment buffs turning out to grace the occasion. It will be recalled that Shugar Power clinched the same award in 2019 at Premium Award Night 2 and has remained on top of his game since then. Born and raised in Osun State, Nigeria, Shugar Powers who hails from Delta State hinted that he was excited about being recognized again by the awarding body, describing the feat as one that would further propel him to greatness. “I am super excited about winning this award and other recognitions trialing my career. This, for me, is a step in the right direction. I want to keep the momentum going as I continue to use my voice, music, and sound to impact the music world specially,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…    Shugar Powers clinches Shining Star Award…  Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…  Shugar Powers clinches Shining Star Award… How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her…    Shugar Powers clinches Shining Star Award… 