ARE you preparing to buy your first house, these are some of the legworks to do in order to be in a good position to buy, according to experts at Ramseysolutions.com. Owning a home is much more expensive than renting, even if your monthly house payment will be less than your current rent. When you’re a homeowner, you’re responsible for everything. Before you even think about buying your first home, get debt-free and save an emergency fund of three to six months of expenses. Then, your money won’t be tied up in monthly payments, and you’ll have cash to cover unexpected costs. Once you’re debt-free, stay that way. Stick with the good money habits you learned while getting out of debt. Before house hunting, determine how much house you can afford Your monthly housing costs—including principal, interest, property taxes, home insurance, private mortgage insurance and homeowners’ association fees—should be 25 per cent or less of your monthly take-home pay. The best down payment is an all cash offer. Nearly one in four buyers pay cash for their houses. But if that isn’t reasonable for your first house, then aim for a 20 per cent down payment. That way, your lender won’t make you pay for PMI. PMI is insurance that protects your lender (not you) if you fail to make payments—so try to avoid this nonsense. Closing costs are typically around 2–7 per cent of your home’s purchase price. You can even put retirement savings on hold for a short time to save for a home. A huge benefit to being a first-time home buyer is that you’ve never fallen for an awful mortgage—and you don’t have to!  Many first-time home-buyer loans only make you put a little money down, but they cost tens of thousands more in the long run. The experts only recommended 15-year fixed-rate conventional mortgages. Some lenders only care about profits, while others actually care about helping you become a homeowner. Talk to at least three lenders. Compare their interest rates, fees and customer service to find the best one for your finances and peace of mind. It pays to get pre approval for a loan (not just prequalified). Preapproval is when your lender verifies your financial information and gives you a letter saying how much money you can borrow. Preapproval shows sellers you’re serious, and you can use your letter to get ahead in a competitive market. One of the most important things you need to buy a house for the first time is actually a person. A good real estate agent will help you find the right home and navigate the buying process. Try to differentiate between what you need and what you want. Know what motivates you. Be content. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…  100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 