RELATIVELY young Public relations and integrated marketing communication consultancy firm, Modion Communications, has clinched the Most Innovative Public Relations Agency in West Africa award at the 11th edition of the Marketing World Awards, held in Accra Ghana. The recent feat was the third international recognition the agency had won this year. The other two are SABRE Awards Certificates of Excellence for its ‘#ZOLA Effect’ campaign for ZOLA Electric Nigeria and ‘Stand Back, Don’t Touch Me’, an in-house creative media relations tactic to support AriseTV correspondent over police brutality in the course of her work. The Marketing World Awards recognise creativity and innovation among public relations, creative and communications agencies, brands, and personalities within the West African region. Commenting on the award, the chief executive officer, Modion Communications, Odion Aleobua,  commended the organisers of the award for beaming their searchlight on the agency’s creative endeavours. “This is our second Marketing World recognition in four years, now underpinned by other international, continental and regional recognitions befitting our status as an African ideas’ powerhouse,” he stated. The Modion Communications’ boss described the feat as demonstrating the agency’s capacity to deliver winning, creative and communications solutions to its growing clientele who had entrusted it with their strategic communications solutions. The Chief Executive Officer of Instinct Waves, the organisers of the award, Mr Akin Naphtal, noted that the agency had consistently demonstrated how disruptive it could be with its ideas and excellent capacity delivery, and therefore deserving of the recognition. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.”  “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 