As part of efforts to provide Nigerians with quality and stress-relieving entertainment, the customer-friendly telecommunications company, 9mobile, has launched its innovative online entertainment platform, 9TV 9TV is a one-stop entertainment hub where 9mobile subscribers on prepaid and hybrid subscriptions can watch their favourite movies, TV shows, children’s entertainment and live events on the go. Accessible on Android and web platforms, 9TV offers free-to-air local and international channels, video-on-demand, reality shows and live events streaming, all at affordable rates and on a variety of smart devices. Unveiling the app on Wednesday, July 20, at its headquarters in Lagos, 9mobile explained that 9TV is a unique platform to give its subscribers refreshing content on various smart devices and help them keep abreast of happenings on smartphones and tablets. “We are happy to be introducing this new entertainment platform for the delight of our subscribers. 9TV will offer unlimited relaxation with quality entertainment content at prices that they can afford,” the Director of Product Innovation and Business Development, 9mobile, Kenechukwu Okonkwo, said. On the various 9TV offerings, Okonkwo said movies would be available in categories including new releases, most-watched, blockbusters, children and other genres. 9TV, he further explained, would be subscription-based, with subscribers getting exceptional value for their money. Subscriptions for 9TV range from N50 to N2,500 depending on subscriber’s choice. Commenting on some of the other unique features of 9TV, Okonkwo said that apart from having all the major features and services a media and entertainment app should have, it allows users to watch whatever they want/like at their convenience. “9TV’s ‘timeshift’ feature on Live TV allows users to watch their favouriteprogrammes with pause, rewind and forward functionalities. Also, the ‘catch-up’ feature will enable users to watch programmes after they have been broadcast, or users who have missed a live broadcast will be able to view it on demand. “9TV allows users to watch and also download their favourite movies, which they will be able to watch later under ‘my downloads’ feature on the app. The downloaded movies will be available to users to view whenever they want, even with no network coverage or when the device is on airplane mode. “Another unique offering on 9TV is Liv.9ja. This on-demand live entertainment streaming section allows users to watch live concerts, interviews, parties and similar events.” Since entering the Nigerian market, 9mobile has consistently affirmed its commitment to customers with quality and affordable products and service offerings. The telco continues to transform lives with its consistent innovation, rolling out solutions that enable Nigerians to realise their full potential. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira  In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…  100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 