THE organisers of the recently-flagged off Nigerian Marketing Awards have said the introduction of the new marketing award into the nation’s marketing communications space was informed by the need to redefine how the hardworking marketing and highly professional marketing professionals should be celebrated. Speaking at the unveiling of the awards to a select journalists in Lagos recently, the convener of the award, Mr Tony Agenmonmen, stated that the new award initiative is designed to stimulate hardwork, innovation and overall quality in marketing planning and execution in Nigeria. According to the former National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) boss, one of the measures put in place to ensure the credibility of the award was to seek the approval of relevant regulatory bodies in the industry, and enlist marketing communications practitioners with proven track records into the award’s selection panel. “In keeping with the commitment to making the award the biggest and most credible marketing awards in Nigeria, we have obtained the full endorsement of the following industry sectoral groups, to have a full representation in the judging panel: Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria, Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN), Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria (EXMAN), and the Outdoor Advertisers Association of Nigeria (OAAN),” he added. Agenmonmen added that winners are expected to emerge from the 31 categories of the Awards, scheduled for November 11, this year. He explained that the Awards Decision Council, known as the judging panel, comprising of seasoned marketing professionals, and which is expected to be led by Mr Ekwunife Okoli, a former Guinness Nigeria chieftain, was deliberately infused with some sectoral representation to enhance ownership by the industry. Speaking on the awards, the Chairman of the Awards, MrEkwunifeOkoli, stated his decision to be a major part of Awards, was informed by need to support a laudable cause. “This is something that Nigerian marketing professionals will be proud of; especially the category that sets out to reward the educators, which simply shows how creative the organisers are,” he added. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.”  “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 