IN its bid to encourage children savings and extend financial inclusion to the kids, the United Bank for Africa (UBA) over the weekend rewarded twenty (20) customers with Two hundred thousand naira  (N200,000) worth of scholarship each in its  Kiddies and Teens raffle draw. At the Kiddies Bumper draw which was held at UBA House on  28, July 2022, several kids and teens participated online by following the live streaming on the bank’s Facebook page. The winners were selected by a raffle draw system from a pool of qualified customers. Some of the winners include: Salihu Yakubu, Simeon Thankgod Ofomona, Ireoluwa David Adenirola among others. UBA Kiddies is a savings account designed for parents or guardians with children between ages zero to twelve years who intend to put money aside (save) for their wards either for a short or long term. Parents or guardians manage the account on behalf of the children. This account is available in two variants – Full and Lite. According to the bank, “Parents with a standing instruction to pay N10,000 every month for at least six months into their Kids or Teens account qualify for the draw.” Customers with UBA Kiddies Account can make withdrawals but if there are more than four withdrawals in a month, the account is disqualified from interest payment for that month. During the draw, the online participants who were asked questions about the latest expansion landmark made by the UBA group and those who answered correctly were rewarded with N5,000. The lender recently extended its operations to the United Arab Emirates with the official launch of its new branch at the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). UBA, which is known as Africa’s global bank, until the latest expansion of its operation had for over seven decades, operated in 20 African countries, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and France. The UBA (DIFC Branch) according to the bank, would operate under the Category 4 licence and would be regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA), the financial regulatory agency of the special economic zone, the Dubai International Financial Centre. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.”  He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 