Kullie, the multi-talented fast-rising singer, songwriter, and rapper, has released his breakthrough smash track, “Boss B*tch,” from his recently released Extended Playlist titled “Tales Time.” 24-year-old Kullie was born Chidiebube Cyprian Onyekelu and bred in Enugu State. According to him, Boss B*tch narrates his story, experiences and past encounters with women who have contributed to his journey to stardom. Furthermore, this new music appreciates and advocates for all the selfless women in the world to keep their grind and hustle 100% real and also for their empowerment and betterment globally. This beautifully composed trap R&B sound was created by the highly prolific beat maker, Bellz Sounds, under the imprints of BIB Records. Just take your time and listen to this tune.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… Safety tips to observe when boarding a ride from a ride-hailing app In order to ensure your safety when next you board a ride, here are safety tips to observe when boarding a ride on ride-hailing apps…  Secure your social media accounts from hackers with these tips It is no longer news that a lot of social media accounts are being hacked daily. It is so painful to have built a strong social media presence and eventually lose it to the hands of social media hackers. These tips will guide you on how to protect your social media accounts easily without struggle… Things to look out for before starting a business Starting a business can be tasking and tiring, but proper planning and strategy help to make it easy. A business without standard planning would fail sooner or later. If you desire to start a business, then this article might just be for you… 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 