In the building technology profession, structural engineers do not take the making of solid foundations with levity, especially in a swampy environment. By the same token, building the nation appropriately should be the primary objective of those who are aspiring to occupy elective positions in the country. All sectors that are in a state of comatose in the country should be resuscitated. The most paramount sector is the education where the youth that are expected to build the nation are supposed to acquire  knowledge in various disciplines and then contributes their quota to the development of the nation.  The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU)  has been on strike for nearly six months and the youth that are supposed to build the nation are now  roaming the streets doing nothing! How do we build the nation in this situation?  The fact is that there is no amount of money spent  on the educational sector that may be regarded as excessive. The role of education in developing the leaders of tomorrow cannot be quantified. The truth of the matter  is that some of our leaders are only interested in building a structure that is not beneficial to the general public. The late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, built some monumental structures that are  beneficial to the masses till now. Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s free education greatly transformed the lives of children whose parents could not afford to pay for the qualitative education they enjoyed. Apparently, many politicians are in politics today only their own selfish interest. A patriotic leader should have keen interest in developmental projects that will enhance the living standards of Nigerians. The 2023 general election is fast approaching. Aspirants for various electives position are therefore implored to work out strategies that will enable them to rebuild our great country, Nigeria. Rev. Oladimeji Michael Olalekan, Ibadan. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…  100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 