NOT a few continue to remark and celebrate his accomplishments as the first ‘indigenous’ Vice-Chancellor of the Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ijebu-Ode (TASUED), where he stood out as an academic/administrator devoted to the high task of ensuring the imparting of knowledge through innovative technologies and within a work environment that is conducive, warm and enlivened. In any case, he could not have envisioned a less than stellar academic environment when and where he was to preside having grown out of the quest for academic excellence in both the study of education and the technology of education teaching. With Bachelor and Master degrees in Mathematics Education and Mathematics respectively from the University of Lagos, Lagos, after his secondary education at the prestigious Ijebu-Ode Grammar School, Ijebu-Ode, and a stint at the then Ogun State College of Education, Ijagun, Ijebu-Ode to earn a National Certificate in Education (NCE) in Mathematics/Chemistry, topped with a doctoral degree in Mathematics, Science and Technology (MST) with specialisation in Mathematics Education from the University of South Africa, Pretoria, he was well placed to be an advocate and apostle of the place and use of technology in education and life and the importance of relying on science to solve human problems and propel development. It was, therefore, in order for many to expect the advantages of his academic training to show in and colour his undertakings given that he was known and continues to be known as someone  committed to excellence in his academic and intellectual pursuits for his own development and for the development of humanity, which characteristic has been part of his growth in his teaching career. It was against this background that observers did and would not expect less than superlative performance from him anywhere he finds himself to contribute to human development even as he has always tried to live up to that billing without any sense of disappointment.  Yet, as a Professor of Mathematics Education and a leading expert in MST education and strategic pedagogical innovations, especially the use of technological innovations and their infusion into the teaching processes, Professor Adelaja Arigbabu did not start his contributions to the teaching innovation streak at TASUED at his appointment as Vice-Chancellor in March 2018, as he had earlier been appointed as the University’s Director of Information and Communications Technology, which post he had to combine with his then office of Dean of Students, because of his expertise and experience in the area of adaptive technology. He had also been Dean of College of Science and Information Technology; Director, Academic Planning, Quality Assurance, and Research; Deputy Vice-Chancello; and Ag. Vice-Chancellor as he continued to help lift the University along the path of his vision before earning the top position. His Vice-Chancellorship tenure was therefore time for the intensification of the profile and prowess of TASUED as the bastion of innovative education and technology-based teaching environment and processes. In this respect, he engineered the construction of Smart Classrooms throughout the University, making TASUED the first University in Nigeria to dispense teaching and education through such smart and technology-propelled classrooms. His tenure was also remarkable for other signposts of achievements in the areas of academic structures, financial management, staff development and physical infrastructural development. And all this without losing the essence of his legendary human relations and compassion through which he has always been able to relate well with all based on humility and dignified criticality. Perhaps his stupendous achievements as TASUED Vice-Chancellor got through to the governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, that he invited him for appointment as the state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology in October 2020 where he has also continued with his penchant for the use of academic insights to solve problems and take the society further on the development plane. Relying on his background in the sciences and technology and their deployment to enhance understanding, he has deftly keyed into the Governor’s Ogun State Education Revitalization Agenda (OGSERA) to introduce and enshrine technology into the day to day affairs of the learners in primary and secondary levels in the State. It is remarkable that learners now get their report sheets online (first of its kind in Nigeria), and all dealings and transactions in the education sector in the State – entrance examination, transfer forms, and such others – could be, and are, done online. Today, there is a robust presence of the State Ministry of Education, Science and Technology online which makes it easy to follow and monitor developments in the ministry at any given time. Students, parents and other stakeholders of the education sector in the State are now in a position to know all about the ministry and its activities and to continue to contribute to development in the sector on the basis of the open and verifiable information available on the state’s online education portal. The education sector in the state has been undergoing positive innovation under him as a hallmark of his being a round peg in a round hole at the top of the Ministry being a deep and versatle professional that is very  conversant with the field and always ready to use his expertise to make positive impact. Professor Arigbabu, a scion of the famous ArigbabuwoAjanlekoko dynasty of Ijebu-Ode, would be quick to say that his  academic and professional accomplishments  and the celebrated innovations he has brought to bear at all his working posts are not just a product of his commitment to hardwork and diligence, but more of the result of the kind blessings of Allah on him and his strivings. Which would be why he has always been known as a devout and devoted Muslim revelling in the seeking of knowledge about and worshipping of Allah as the greatest responsibility of humans. He has, therefore, being prominent in the propagation, growth and development of Islam and the Muslim Ummah in Ijebu-Ode and Ogun State, becoming the Amir of the University Muslim Community and earning accolades such as the Award of Excellence from the League of Imams and Alfas of Ijebu-land in July 2010 and the 7th Jihad and Dawah Merit Award by the National Council of Muslim Youth Organizations (NACOMYO) in May 2019 and several other such awards. For him, the whole essence of life is to be able to use the blessings and talents of and from Allah to positively affect the society and the rest of humanity in order to being continuous honour and glory to Allah. And this is what he wants to continue to demonstrate and uphold as he goes on with his service to Ogun State as the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology. In Professor Arigbabu, who turned 60 years of age on Tuesday, July 26, 2022, we see evidence of the benevolence of God and the continuing determination to put the talent of academic excellence from God into the service of humanity and God. And in this, we cannot but wish this extraordinary mentor and kind and innivative manager of human and material resources more successes and accomplishments in the devotion to using academic excellence to serve humanity and God. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said.  The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 