The Arewa Coalition for Good Governance (ACGG) has said the ‘hardline’ positions of former Secretary to the Federal Government; Mr Lawal Babachir, ex-speaker of House of Representatives , Yakubu Dogara and Adamawa Lawmaker, Senator Ishaku Abbo over issue of Muslim-Muslim ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  are based on selfish interest. According to the coalition their anger is because none of them was picked as running mate and not on issue of Muslim-Muslim ticket as it being projected. “At a time when all critical stakeholders of APC are supposed to be working for unity and progress of the party during the forthcoming 2023 general elections, they have decided to deploy religious sentiments  as a weapon of war to discourage Christians from Tinubu/Shettima,” the group said in a statement. In a statement signed by a leader of the coalition,  Elder Peter Sati Auta, and made available to newsmen in Kaduna on Sunday noted  that, “Nigerians, especially the electorate are wise enough to know that whipping religious sentiments against any candidate is not the solution to the challenges of insecurity; dwindling economy, Insurgency, high unemployment rate, bad governance and other problems militating against progress and development of Nigeria. Stating that the Holy Bible gave Christians the mandate to pray for leaders, it claimed: «anything out of this is not only unhealthy, but retrogressive. “This, among several reasons, is why as Christian leaders in various churches, we decided to come out  and  speak against the divisive move by our brothers to create a religious crack in the polity ahead of the 2023 elections. “Instead of holding nocturnal meetings to fight the issue of Muslim-Muslim ticket, we expected them to spend energy on   talking about how to contribute their quota to finding solutions to plethora of above mentioned problems that over the past twenty years have served as cog in the wheel of progress.” While noting in that statement that  Babachir and Dogara could be the ones working  to overheat  the polity and destroy same party that gave them platform of political relevance, It stressed, we hold the view that this is nothing but mere selfish interest  of the spent forces, which should be rejected outrightly. The statement further read: “Everyone knows that both Former Lagos State Governor, Bola  Tinubu  and former Borno Governor, Kashim Shettima are not religious bigots, so the earlier they know that  the idea of whipping religious sentiments against won’t work . “It is in public domain that Tinubu and Shettima helped good numbers of Christians during their days as Governors of Lagos and Borno.” “Where were they when the heavy campaign of calumny of been a “Religious Bigot” was muted against Buhari? Of course, some of them supported him to win and  were later  compensated with appointments. Even with all the unprintable names Buhari was called, yet they worked for him. “When Babachir and Dogara held public offices, at what point did they speak or work for Christians? Reacting to what it described as “Senator Abbo’s outburst on the Muslim-Muslim ticket, “Was the sex toy scandal and slapping of the lady at the sex toy shop part of religious evangelism? “We are urging Christians to shun Babachir, Dogara and Senator Abbo›s divisive strategies and vote candidates of their choice regardless of religion and tribal backgrounds.  “The most important thing for Nigerians now is come out during the elections and vote good leaders based on merit; experience and records of performance.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 