THE abductors of a middle-aged man identified as Idowu in Ekiti State have released him after reported payment of a ransom of N750,000 plus beer, cigarettes and noodles by his family. The victim was on Monday ambushed and kidnapped on Ikole-Ijesa Isu Road in Ikole Local Government Area at about 6.30 p.m. while travelling in his car. Saturday Tribune gathered that the victim, the manager of one of the relaxation centres in the council area, was released in the early hours of Friday in a bush close to the area. According to a source close to the victim, the kidnappers had called the family and demanded for N2 million ransom before it was reduced to N750,000. The source added that aside from the N750,000, the gunmen also received from the family cans of beer, noodles, cigarettes, soft drinks and other items. “They initially demanded N2 million from the family but after serious pleading, they agreed on N750,000 which the family paid. They collected other materials like beer, cigarettes, soft drinks and noodles before our man was released today (Friday). We want the government to do something about the increasing cases of kidnapping in this area,” the source said. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, confirmed the release of the victim but denied knowledge of ransom payment by the family. The PPRO claimed that the victim regained his freedom due to the efforts of a combined team of the police, vigilante and Amotekun corps personnel in the state. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details