A philanthropist, President and Founder of Enemona Josh Humanitarian Foundation, Ambassador David Onoja has been abducted by gunmen. According to sources, he was kidnapped at about 10.30 am on Thursday in his house at Wada road Lokoja. The family source said he was picked from his house by six gunmen who were dressed in police uniforms with bulletproof vests and armed with AK-47s. The source added that the gunmen came to the resident of the philanthropist in a sienna bus panted in maroon colour and manhandled him before they whisk him away to an unknown destination. The sources said the armed men made their way through the normal gate but introduced themselves as police officers from the Kogi State Police Command. It was gathered that with the information they gave at the gate, they were allowed asses on for them to rush into the parlour, and forcefully kidnapped him and pushed him into their waiting vehicle and drove away. Meanwhile, SP William Ovye-Aya, the Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Kogi Police Command, who confirmed the incident said the command was in touch with a little girl in Onoja’s residence, who narrated how it happened. “Although, we are not certain whether it is kidnapping but according to a family member, the men were armed with AK-47 and bulletproof vests. “The police has swung into action by deploying some officers to the resident of the philanthropist to get details that could assist us to launch a manhunt for his eventual rescue. “As it is, we are on top of the situation and would work in collaboration with other security agencies to ensure that we track down the hoodlums and bring them to book. “We hereby appeal to the public to help report any suspicious individual(s) or group and information about the whereabouts of the abducted foundation president,” he appeared. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details