Rinsola, daughter of the late presumed winner of the 1993 presidential election, MKO Abiola, has obtained nomination forms to contest for the office of the National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with a pledge to focus on the interest of young people. The activist, who stormed the APC national secretariat in Abuja with tens of supporters to collect the forms at the weekend, is aiming to be the first female to hold the position in a major political party in the country. Her campaign has been focused on rallying the party members to seize the chance to make history and enhance the party’s progressive ideals as one committed to the attainment of social justice through the meaningful inclusion of youths and women in leadership. Miss Abiola expressed gratitude to her supporters and others who have identified with her aspiration, offering assurances on her plans to protect the interests of young progressives and mobilise youth votes for the party if elected. Some supporters who accompanied her to obtain the forms have expressed the belief that she is well-positioned to deliver on her promises given her extensive network and collaboration with leading youth voices across different sectors. Abiola is hoping to draw on her experience 
on working close to the APC administration to improve outcomes and opportunities available to marginalized groups, especially youths and women. She is putting forward her credentials of being at the forefront of numerous advocacy movements aimed at achieving gender equity and youth inclusion in the last decade. As the founder of Equity Now Initiative and Derinsola Abiola Foundation, she boasts of direct contributions to the empowerment and education of women and youths, alongside school-aged children, particularly in her home state of Ogun. Abiola has served on various youth committees of the APC and led various campaigns to expand the party’s membership strength and increase its appeal amongst young people. During the party’s recent membership registration exercise, she provided key grassroots support to hundreds of members to facilitate smooth participation in the exercise and also embarked on an effective media campaign to mobilise support across the South-West region. Miss Abiola, a certified Public Relations professional, also boasts of legislative and policy experience, having served in the Eighth Assembly as an aide to the Speaker of the House of Representatives. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team