The resettlement day celebration organised by a non-governmental organisation in Langtang South local government area of Plateau State ended abruptly on Saturday following a fiasco between the incumbent chairman of the council, Vincent Bulus Venman, and the embattled chairman of Langtang North LG, Hon Ubandoma Laven. The fiasco led to a free-for-all among the supporters. Nigerian Tribune gathered that when Laven, a stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), arrived at the event at Sabon Gida community of Langtang South, the anchor of the programme ushered him to the high table to take his seat. Irked by the development and the ovation given to Laven by his supporters, Venman, who was elected on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) walked up to Laven and allegedly slapped him. An eyewitness, Emmanuel Tinsel, said the incident led to commotion among supporters of the duo while several people including Venman sustained injuries and were consequently hospitalised. “It was a sad development, nobody anticipated that such an ugly scenario could happen despite their political differences. The unfortunate incident created tension in both Langtang North and Langtang South local governments, Venman sustained an injury while Laven was aided out of the event by his loyalists,” he said. Efforts to reach both Venman and Laven proved abortive as their phones were switched off. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.