For Yakub Sodiq Opeyemi also known as Yakiss, making music alone does not seem to be his only passion as he appears to be concerned about giving Nigerians hope when it comes to humanitarian services. Yakiss who is touted to be one of the most talked-about afro beat rising stars hinted that while he loves to give people music, he equally wants to share his time, resources and love with the downtrodden, who according to him deserve much love from society. According to the Kolobi crooner, he has been engaged in a number of humanitarian services through his platform, one that caters for the needy and those whose means of livelihood may have been threatened because of certain challenges. Speaking about how he wants to keep impacting lives outside music, Yakiss also disclosed that he and his team will continue to advocate a better life for poor and less privileged Nigerians, among whom are people living with disabilities and other related health issues. “This is one of the ways we can touch the lives of the people outside our core music calling. Reaching out to the people and showing them love through different means of humanitarian services and sharing love should remind us all that we are not better than them but we are lucky to be in a better place,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Yakiss reaches out to underprivileged, promises to do more Yakiss reaches out to underprivileged, promises to do more ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details