A philanthropic organization in Kwara State, financed by an aspirant contesting for the Ilorin East/Ilorin South federal constituency in the 2023 general elections, Hon Abdulwaheed Jimmy Idiagbon, has distributed free 500 Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) forms to university admission seekers in t constituency. The aspirant, who is All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, hails from same community in the Ilorin metropolis as the late General Babatunde Idiagbon, Nigerian general who served as the sixth Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters under military head of state General Muhammadu Buhari from 1984 to 1985. Speaking during the distribution, Hon. Idiagbon said that the foundation, SIJ Foundation, shared his determination to build a better society by developing the youths and uplifting the vulnerable people in the Ilorin constituency and Kwara state as a whole. He said that the ideals prompted him to create the platform where the aforementioned category of people could be meaningfully assisted. “I feel it is necessary to support in building a very safe, secured and prosperous future for the young ones for them to be reckoned with in the nearest future”. Idiagbon, whose humanitarian gesture has been widely appreciated by the people before now, was also commended and appreciated by the beneficiaries and their parents, who described education as the bedrock of development. The APC chieftain also said that he has other programmes for different sectors of the society, said that such programmes include supporting the vulnerable, aged, youths, and people with disabilities. The beneficiaries, who were majorly drawn from Ilorin East and South local government areas of the state received their free forms at the ‘SIJ Foundation’ secretariat in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details