Africa Magic, in association with MultiChoice, has announced an eight-day series of events to herald the eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCAs) set to hold on May 14, The Executive Head, Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice Nigeria, Dr. Busola Tejumola, made the announcement at a press conference on Thursday, March 17. Dr. Busola Tejumola stated that the introduction of the eight-day series of events will bring exciting changes to the awards which had its first edition in 2013. “We are focused on shining the light on the many aspects that make the African film and television industry truly magical and beaming that magic to millions of Africans who watch the awards every year. “These curated events will feature a celebration of fashion, technology, food and African culture. There will also be panel discussions and film screenings from our MultiChoice Talent Factory, industry sessions, and competitions for digital content creators and budding fashion designers,” she said. The eight-day event will commence with an Opening Night on Saturday, May 7. This will be followed by a first-ever AMVCA runway show in partnership with Bella Naija Style on Sunday, May 8. On Monday, May 9 will be MultiChoice Talent Factory Day with movie screenings and panel discussions by students of the MTF academy. Africa Magic will host industry stakeholders to a special Content Market Day on Tuesday, May 10 and a pan-African food festival and cultural day on Wednesday, May 12. A Digital Content Creators’ Day to spotlight the growing popularity of online content creators will hold on Thursday, May 12. There will be a special gala for nominees on Friday, May 13 while the awards night, which will hold on Saturday, May 14 will crown the series of events. Dr. Tejumola also noted that the AMVCA was birthed in line with Africa Magic’s vision of providing entertainment for Africans by Africans. She added that the AMVCA has fostered the development of the African film and television industry since it was introduced. The nominees for the eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards will be unveiled on Saturday, March 19 in a special broadcast on all Africa Magic channels on DStv and GOtv from 9 pm. It will be hosted by Nollywood actors, Adesua Etomi-Wellington and Daniel Etim-Effiong. The eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards is brought by Africa Magic in association with MultiChoice and is sponsored by Amstel Malta. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  AMVCAs: Africa Magic unveils eight-day event lineup  AMVCAs: Africa Magic unveils eight-day event lineup AMVCAs: Africa Magic unveils eight-day event lineup  AMVCAs: Africa Magic unveils eight-day event lineup ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team