The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has expressed sadness over the death of one of its members, Dr Chinelo Megafu Nwando, a member of the association, who died after sustaining gunshot injuries during the terrorists attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train on Monday. The NMA also expressed worries over situation in the country which is fast becoming a recurrent decimal, thus worsening the alarming effects of brain drain, which in many instances have been attributable to the worsening security situation in the country. In a statement by the NMA through Dr Aniekeme Uwah, the National Publicity Secretary of the association, the news of the death of the lady speaks of the worsening security situation in the country. According to the statement: “The NMA President, Professor Innocent A O Ujah and indeed all Medical and Dental Practitioners under the auspices of NMA are deeply saddened by the tragic, horrific and preventable death of one of our members, Dr Chinelo Megafu Nwando who is reported to have lost her life from injuries sustained from gunshots when the train she travelled in from Abuja to Kaduna was attacked by suspected bandits. “As an association, we vehemently decry the worsening insecurity in the country which has made all of us and Nigerians as a whole vulnerable to violent attacks by hoodlums, bandits, kidnappers and terrorists who are currently having a field day causing us deep sorrows and severe pains. “The untimely death of the young, promising doctor who served at the Kaduna State Dental Centre and worked with St Gerrard’s Hospital, Kakuri, while striving to earn a honest living is one other death too many. “The association notes that needless blood letting and senseless loss of lives is fast becoming a recurrent decimal in our country, thus worsening the alarming effects of brain drain, which in many instances have been attributable to the worsening security situation in the country. “The association hereby calls on the security agencies to urgently reorganise the security architecture in the country with focus on intelligence gathering in order to avoid these carnages across the country. “The association also recommends that the Federal Government gives a strong consideration to the establishment of state police to further compliment the efforts of the Nigerian Police Force. “The recruitment of more security personnel and the provision of modern security gadgets and ammunition for them can’t be overemphasised. Lastly, the association prays God to grant the families of Dr Chinelo and other victims of the very unfortunate incidence, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. “We also pray for the speedy recovery of all those who sustained various forms of injuries from gun shots while trying to escape the attack.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details