Licensing of commercial activities is a complex process from an organizational and legal point of view, for the successful completion of which it is necessary to clearly understand not only the formal rules and conditions for obtaining a license, but also the actual law enforcement practice in this area for this particular jurisdiction. The main difficulty in licensing financial activities is that each country is unique in terms of regulating this type of procedure. The specifics of legislation, the specifics of the operation of by-laws and the principles of their application in practice in each jurisdiction are their own. Ready SPI license for sale can be the greatest option both for experienced businesspeople and for beginner. SPI in a particular country (Small Payment Institution license) is a prerequisite for activities in the financial market segment. Usually it is a business with electronic money and ICO. Recently, the Czech license has gained particular popularity. With such permission, the company can: The general rules for issuing such a license provide for compliance by the business with the legislative policy of the regulator regarding: The regulatory body must also be satisfied with the organization that wants to obtain a license, namely: ICYMI: Obiano now with us in Abuja after arrest at Lagos airport, says EFCC’s spokesman Very often, the activities of companies providing a wide range of financial services fall under several categories of licenses at once. This means the need to obtain several licenses, which requires significantly more money and time. In addition, a company that receives several categories of licenses at once must have a special organizational and legal structure with an officially registered office and personnel of a certain qualification. Given the overall organizational complexity of the process of obtaining several licenses at once, the help of qualified lawyers in such circumstances becomes simply necessary. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team