The Planned Parenthood Foundation of Nigeria (PPFN) has said 25 healthcare workers from six Local Government Areas of Kaduna State are undergoing training on how to increase the uptake of COVID-19 vaccines among the people. Speaking during the training of the health care workers under the ACCESS project, in Kaduna on Wednesday, Dr George Swomen said the project was aimed at increasing the uptake of COVID-19 vaccine in Kaduna, Kano, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Swomen revealed that in Kaduna, the project is implemented in six local government areas of the state, and he gave the names of the Local governments as Kachia, Kaduna South, Igabi, Zaria, Sabon Gari and Markafi. According to him, the training was also aimed to keep pace with the Federal Ministry of Health and NPHCDA on the scale – 2 plan of COVID-19 mass vaccination campaign. “It is in this light that Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN) Kaduna under the Access project organised a three days residential training for 25 Healthcare workers (Routine Immunisation Providers from it 25 project supported facilities across the six Local Government Areas of the state. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also speaking, the field project officer, Access project, Jamila Abdulkareem, said, “we were happy to say that in February, we conducted two days outreach in twelve communities, each LGA has two communities, and from those communities, twelve communities, we are happy to say that we have vaccinated 3,168 persons. According to her, the acceptance rate is very encouraging even though she said, ‘we will say that the result showed that many men people accept the vaccine, more than the female. “To us many females have negative information which we try as much as possible to review their mindset and misconception. “Most of these women will say, women during their menstruation, they won’t take the vaccine, breastfeeding mothers won’t take, pregnant women won’t take, so we are trying to correct their misconception during our sensitisation training but we still realised that many men took the vaccine more than the women,” she stressed. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details