Anambra State government, on Wednesday, held a valedictory event for the outgoing governor of the state, Chief Willie Obiano, even though his tenure ends on March 17, 2022. Tribune Online gathered that the Prominent individuals who gathered at the International Convention Centre, Awka took time to praise Obiano over what they termed his glowing achievements in the last eight years in the state. The event also featured an award presentation, unveiling of a biography on the governor and the official inauguration of the 13,000 seater International Convention Centre, Awka. Tribune Online also gathered that the reason for the event was the insistence of the governor-elect, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo to hold a low-key swearing-in ceremony, as he would spend eight hours working at Okpoko Slum, near Onitsha on March 17, after his swearing-in. During the valedictory event, a book written by an investment banker, Ike Chioke with the title – Akpokuedike, Duty Call in Anambra, was also unveiled. Chioke who spoke at the event said: “I set out to write this book to immortalize Chief Willie Obiano and his performance in the eight years that he served as governor. “I met him in 2004 during the banking sector consolidation when the governor-elect was the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, and Chief Obiano was the Executive Director of Fidelity Bank, and as an investment banker, I was to work with the bank in the acquisition of another bank. “Since then, we had been close, and later I was to work with him when he became governor, and later he appointed me as the Managing Director of Anambra State Investment Promotion and Protection Agency (ANSIPPA) where I serve till this moment. “This book is my attempt to document the achievements of the governor for posterity. He is a man who has a strong conviction about what he wanted to achieve in Anambra, and he came to powerfully prepared for the task, and is today leaving the state with a lot of legacy projects.” Former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe are among the dignitaries who eulogized the governor for his achievements in the last eight years. Meanwhile, Governor Obiano used the opportunity of the event to award deserving sons and daughters of the state. The governor said: “By the powers conferred on me as the Governor of Anambra State, in the Anambra State Honours Laws of 1995, I want to award some deserving personalities in the state. “This is an authentic award, and we will be awarding recipients in categories, including Commanders, grand commanders and merit awards. You must feel free to affix it to your name anywhere in the world as it is very recognized.” The recipients included: Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, first republic minister of Aviation, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, former governors, Mr Peter Obi and Dr Chris Ngige, former deputy governors, Mr Emeka Sibeudu and Virgy Etiaba, Chief Emeka Offor. Others who received posthumous awards are Former minister of information, Prof. Dora Akunyili, former Senate President, Dr Chuba Okadigbo, former president of Nigeria, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Emeka Ojukwu and many others. Speaking to journalists shortly after the commissioning, the State Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Engr. Michael Okonkwo, said the event centre, has the capacity to accommodate ten thousand persons. Okonkwo, who served as the supervisor of the project, thanked the governor and Ndi-Anambra for giving him the opportunity to serve the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Obiano commissions International  Obiano commissions International Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Obiano commissions International  Obiano commissions International ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more