The Police in Delta State have arrested a vigilante for allegedly killing a 22-year-old man in Sapele, Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State. The victim was said to have been mistakenly shot by the suspect who was among the boys who earlier attacked the vigilante group during a dance festival in Sapele urban. The corpse of the victim has been deposited at the Sapele Central Morgue. It was learnt that some persons were watching a traditional worshippers dance festival in the area when the alleged killer suddenly emerged and shot the young man dead on the spot. Eye witness account said: “His vigilante colleagues wasted no time in arresting him and taking him to the police station and as I speak to you, he is behind the bars while investigation will be carried out.” The Police Public Relations Officer, Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe could not confirm the story when contacted on Friday saying the matter was not officially reported to the police. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Vigilante allegedly kills  Vigilante allegedly kills Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Vigilante allegedly kills  Vigilante allegedly kills ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team