A front governorship aspirant under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Obinna Ogba has maintained that his reign if elected will not be for himself and his family alone. Ogba who is currently a serving Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone at the National Assembly made the vow when he received thousands of his supporters that received him in Abakaliki. Ogba, also added that he will restructure the health system from the Primary to tertiary sector to reduce mother and child deaths and other preventable loss of life in the state. His words “During our service period, our people will know that mechanized system of Agriculture is practicable through a partnership with Agriculture faculties and departments of our institutions of higher learning. “We shall harness our culture and tourism sector and repackage it into a marketable venture through talent hunting and development, and growing our tourist centres.” “Reinstating our scholarship package and program both foreign and domestic through international and interstate partnership. Our students will be happy again. “Accountable utilization of our natural resources for the good of entire Ebonyians. Our communities and locals will be happy and safe again. “Restoration of our sporting sector especially the prestigious Ebonyi Angels and Queens and other sporting activities as a way of curbing crime, youth unrest and enhancing youth engagement. “Reinventing the respected framework of our civil service System and giving meaningful life to our civil servants. Our civil and public servants will be happy again. “Our agenda will focus on empowering youths with gainful ventures and not with guns and other dangerous weapons. “The less privileged and persons living with disability will have a voice and play the role of critical stakeholders that they are. We are partners in progress. “Under our watch, every citizen is a stakeholder and will be treated as such. “Our markets, businesses, transport and other commercial sectors will have a human face in order to attract investors and not the usual crude, rude and ‘gangsterism’ approach. “No more get our market men and women down” “During our service period, our people will know that the mechanized system of Agriculture is practicable through a partnership with Agriculture faculties and departments of our institutions of higher learning. “We shall harness our culture and tourism sector and repackage it into a marketable venture through talent hunting and development, and growing our tourist centres. “Our religion and traditional institution ( NDI EZE) will take their pride of place of guiding the conscience of those in the position of authority and not tools in the hands of politicians for vainglory and selfish gain at the expense of our society. Finally, Our reign will not be a reign of ME, MYSELF and I. The Judas economic strategy and in the simple terms “Myself and family Nigeria LTD,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…I will not run  I will not run Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…I will not run  I will not run ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details