At least 448 shelters at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Government Girls Secondary School, Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State, were destroyed by fire. The council chairman, Abatcha Ali-Kawu, confirmed the incident on Thursday when he went to commiserate with the victims at the camp. Ali-Kawu was accompanied by a member representing Mafa at the state House of Assembly, Baba Ali-Modu, and other top officials of the local government. He said that many shelters and food items worth millions of naira were destroyed, while hundreds of households in the camps were displaced during the fire outbreak which occurred on Tuesday, March 15. The chairman urged the victims to have faith in God, noting that he would work with those in higher authorities to provide immediate succour to the affected victims. Malam Ahmadu Abacha, the IDPs camp Chairman, said that the fire broke out at 3:40 p.m.y from one of the shelters before it engulfed and spread to other places. Abacha explained that efforts by members of the host community and security agencies who quickly mobilised to the scene helped in bringing the situation under control. He said that no life was lost to the fire nor injury recorded in the incident. In his remarks, the Council’s Secretary, Mohammed Sheriff, expressed shocks and deep sadness over the incident. He advised the camp management to set up a committee that would sensitise the people on proper ways of handling fire. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Many displaced as fire destroys 448 shelters in Borno IDP camps  Many displaced as fire destroys 448 shelters in Borno IDP camps Many displaced as fire destroys 448 shelters in Borno IDP camps  Many displaced as fire destroys 448 shelters in Borno IDP camps ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity