THE spiritual leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, has alleged that those who raided his house in Zaria came with the motive to kill him and his wife, but he was miraculously saved by providence. He made this known while speaking with the BBC Hausa in an interview at the weekend. According to him, when they raided his house in Zaria and began to shell his house with bullets, he knew their sole aim was to wipe him from the surface of the earth. However, he remarked that they still lived with shrapnel in some parts of their bodies which the doctors overseas said could be removed. El-Zakzaky who claimed that his leg and eye were damaged during the raid, quickly added it was by the miracle of  Almighty Allah that his leg and damaged eye were healed. Despite what happened, the Shiite leader is still optimistic that one day he will return to Zaria to begin a new life. To this end, he appealed to the authorities to release his passport and that of his wife so that they could be able to access medical treatment overseas. Narrating his ordeal, he alleged, “When they came to kill us, intense firepower made us hide in a room that was used as a laundry. “But they announced that if we don’t come out, they will set fire on the house so I decided it would be better I went and they shoot me than to be burnt alive. “They killed my children and many others. They shot me and my wife. When they discovered we are still alive, I was later taken to a medical facility in Zaria, then 44 hospitals in Kaduna and then to Abuja. “I survived only by the will of Allah. My eye was affected when bullets flew past. But it’s healing by the will of Allah.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details