The Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA) and the United Nations Women have organised a discourse on climate shocks: challenges, opportunities and best practices for attaining gender equality, on Wednesday, in lagos. Speaking at the event, The Director-General of the Institute, Professor Eghosa Osaghae, said the shocks from climate change have adverse effect on development in terms of weather conditions. The DG added that it has led to increased desertification, reduction in freshwater availability even as effusions and emissions have continued to be serious issues. “First, it is to bring to the attention of everyone to put on the agenda of development discourse that the shocks that come from the climate change are far more reaching and impactful than we have ever imagined with adverse effect on development in terms of weather conditions. “It has led to increased desertification. It has led to the reduction in freshwater availability. Effusions and emissions have continued to be serious issues,” the DG explained. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE While speaking on the rationale behind the event, the former Vice-Chancellor of Igbinedion University said that gender equality has been the pillars of transformation at all levels. Osaghae noted that the Institute has a strong support and advocacy for women’s right and gender equality; hence, the Institute is joining the United Nations, particularly the United Nations women to celebrate the world women’s day which is an essential day on the UN calendar. “For a long time, this is being one of the key pillars of transformation at all levels in that whatever we do we must have equity, inclusivity, human rights and Justice. “The event is to show NIIA’s strong support and advocacy for women’s rights and gender equality. “This year, we are joining with the United Nations, particularly the United Nations women and it is to celebrate the world women’s day which is an essential day on the UN calendar.” Professor Osaghae said. Speaking also, The Head, Climate Change Desk, NIIA, Dr Chinanza Ohiri explained that climate change affects women in the sense that they are exposed to different attacks while trying to find alternative during climate shocks. Chinanza further explained that women do not have assets when they need to adapt to the issue of climate change and also don’t have money to purchase the needed tools for the adaptation. “Climate change affects women in so many ways. When water is getting scarer, they have to go a long way to look for water. Along the way, they might even be attacked, raped. It exposes them to insecurity as they look for water to attend to their families. “As farmers, women do not have assets when they need to adapt to the issue of climate change. They don’t have money to purchase the needed tools for the adaptation. “And so, they would be forced to go and borrow from the informal sector,” Chinanza said. She, therefore, urged the government involve women in decision making so that their voices would be heard. “The Departmental Head added it would help them input women’s needs in their policies. “The government should involve women in decision making so that moving forward our voices would be heard. “It would also help them to input women’s needs in their policies at the end of the day., She said. Also speaking at the event were Professor Olajumoke Yacob-Haliso, Dr Priscillia Achapka, Ms Stella Odiase, and Mrs. Oloyede Oluyemi. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details