Former Oyo State Commissioner for Finance, Bimbo Adekanmbi, has expressed appreciation over his conferment of the Distinguished Fellowship Award (DFA) by the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII). Adekanmbi received the award from the President General of CCII, Prince Oluyemisi Adetayo Adeaga and other members of the Executive Council, on behalf of the Olubadan of Ibadan Land, His imperial majesty, Oba Mohood Ishola Balogun (Alli Okumade II), in recognition of Adekanmbi’s contributions to the progress of  CCII and to Ibadanland. The conferment took place during a business luncheon and award ceremony, held on Thursday in Ibadan, that was organised as part of activities lined up for CCII’s 2022 Ibadan Cultural Festival Week which began on Sunday, March 13. Adekanmbi described the award as a challenge to do more. He said, “I feel humbled and proud to be an Ibadan man because it (the award) was not solicited. So I am very grateful. “This is a challenge and a call to more action because we have been doing things. We were not doing it to be recognised. “Now that we have been recognised by the people – the core of where you come from  – it is a challenge to do more to enhance the development of the land.” The one-time deputy chief of staff to a former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, and senatorial hopeful, expressed his appreciation to his co-awardees and to the Olubadan, the President General and other members of the Executive Council of the CCII for counting him worthy of the award which came out of the discretion of the CCII. Adekanmbi has for the past three years been offering over 300 free UTME forms for the youth and scholarships to any Federal university of choice for the best students among those that participated in the UTME examination in all the nine local governments in Ibadan and Ibarapa zone of the state. Importantly, all Adekanmbi’s Youth Empowerment Programmes are targeted at brilliant, but financially handicapped students with the sole objective of building a virile youth that will make positive contributions to their community and to society as a whole. He also recently gave bursary awards to the tune of five million naira to 120 students who are indigenes of Oyo State in all the tertiary institutions in Nigeria. Adekanmbi has continued to implement numerous social programmes, such as the COVID19 Intervention, where he distributed hand sanitisers to various markets in Oyo State and food items to all local governments. He also made a donation of N1 million to the U.C.H Ibadan in support of efforts at combating the COVID-19 scourge. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team