Amid the resurgence of insecurity in Imo State, President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday summoned Governor Hope Uzodinma to apprise him of the situation and factors militating against the return to peace in the area. Also summoned to meet with President Monday, were the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, and the Chief Economic Adviser, Prof Doyin Salami. The summon of the Minister and the Chief Economic Adviser was not unconnected with the President’s concern over the frequent power outages for which he has already apologised to Nigerians and assuring a quick relief to the situation. Uzodinma was summoned following the latest armed attack in Imo targeting the home of Prof. George Obiozor, President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo and some police assets. President Buhari had already condemned the development and commiserated with the victims. Emerging from the meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Governor Uzodinma, confirmed to State House correspondents that the meeting was on the insecurity in his State and the South East. He explained: “Generally, it is the subject of insecurity in the South East and what is required to ensure that is properly controlled. “We discussed that and he took seriously my recommendations and indeed I tell you, he immediately gave approval to all that which includes an increase in manpower of security agencies and then logistics supports ranging from additional arms and ammunition.” Governor Uzodinma said his administration has continued to reach out to aggrieved politicians in the state in a bid to carry them along so that can contribute their quota to the growth and development of Imo State. Recalling the efforts he has put in this direction, he said: “Since January 2020, when I came to office, one of the things I initiated was quarterly stakeholders meeting. As a matter of fact, I have had six stakeholders engagements. And the purpose of that engagement is to create a platform where the stakeholders will meet and will also act as an opinion poll to involve people in governance and that has yielded a lot of positive results. “Arising from that, we have also done one on one engagement with some critical stakeholders. “For those who are aggrieved, I don’t know if those grievances are against the government or against individuals. “But those who think are part of the political system that are not contributing positively to the current administration, we’re also reaching out to them. Of course, I know if anything is to go by, some of the reasonable minds have started coming back. “If you have been following the politics of Imo state of late, given the evolution we have just deployed to rescue the infrastructure, that was almost absent and our achievements so far, it has attracted a lot of support from our people. “Leaders from Imo state are together and united in commending our efforts. And if you can go to Imo State and be on the ground, apart from some dissenting voices that are on your social media, I think the state is almost recovered and we’re doing very, very well. “So, there’s no need at this point in time for people to be aggrieved over what is not in existence. All I urge people to do is to be part of the growing concern, contribute their quota towards the development of the state and support the government of the day to deliver democratic dividends to our people. “All these grievances here and there, what is the origin of the grievances? Why are people not able to look at reality on the ground. And I know that at this point in time, globally speaking, we must not be left behind as a country, we must also not be left behind as a state. “We need to unite ourselves, we need to be realistic with ourselves, we need to be proactive in making sure that our tomorrow is better.” The Governor denied culpability in the insecurity in the state, arguing that his administration does not engage non-state actors in its attempt to keep the peace. In responding to the question, he stated: “Well, thank God that you called us government. And I don’t know how a government with the paraphernalia of office, the Air Force, the Navy, the DSS, the Civil Defense will not now go for non-actors to be used for governance. “So, as civilized people, you also represent the elites, so you should be able to advise such minds to reason well and think well. Because the only person that officially has the power of cohesion is government. “If anything is to go by, we are a God-fearing government. That is why we have not used force as the only way of controlling the violence in Imo State. “I just told you that we initiated the involvement of vigilante, where community leaders will get involved. As a government one man, I sit there in Owerri looking at things and doing my work, but at the remote villages, where most of these things are happening, every community has been modelled in a manner that if they are together, they will defend their land. “So, community by community, leadership by leadership, they will be able to defend themselves come together, even before this time. “We are known from that part of the world, we come from East, we believe in the town union system. This town union apart from the traditional institutions, leaders come together, set up a town and the purpose of this union is to attract development to the community. “It is not to allow the only government to be the one providing developmental projects. Through community efforts, a lot of projects have been completed in the southeast. Ranging from town halls, rural roads, electricity health centres. “So, it will not stop now. All we can do, any reasonable government is modify and encourage such partnerships to be able to have an optimized result. So, those people who are of that thinking, they need to renew their thinking and think right.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Buhari summons Uzodinma  Buhari summons Uzodinma Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Buhari summons Uzodinma  Buhari summons Uzodinma ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team