The Osinbajo Global Movement (OGM) has reacted to reports on some social media platforms that Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) has denied his 2023 presidential ambition describing them as complete falsehood. The group urged Nigerians to disregard the report which it described as a “worthless piece of article issued in bad faith and taste.” In a statement today in Lagos, the group’s spokesperson, Chukwuma Azuka, said “The reports are complete falsehood and fabrications from the imaginations of the vice president’s perennial detractors who are intimidated by Osinbajo’s glowing political profile.” He said further, “We in the Osinbajo Global Movement have predicted this move a long time ago which is why we are not shocked. For us, we know Osinbajo is contesting and will declare soon. “Credible intelligence at our disposal points to elements working tirelessly to misinform people with the view to damping their hopes that Osinbajo will join the 2023 presidential race. “Why they chose this route remains a mystery to us. We, on our part think democracy is about inclusion and freedom of choice. We then wonder why anyone or group thinks it’s a good strategy to discourage people – especially Osinbajo’s supporters, from supporting him for the exalted office. “We noticed there was a deliberate effort to misconstrue a statement from Osinbajo’s spokesperson, Laolu Akande, who said VP is only focused on the tasks he’s elected to do. This cannot mean Osinbajo is not interested in running for the office of President except one is just being plainly dishonest. “We need not remind Nigerians that as a sitting Vice President, Osinbajo enjoys the right of first refusal when it comes to the All Progressive Congress, APC, ticket. So, the obviously fabricated report that he can deny his ambition shows the desperation of some of the people behind this falsehood. “We urge Nigerians to completely disregard this worthless piece of the article issued in bad faith and keep it where it truly belongs – the trash bin. “Nigerians will recall that these same political buccaneers sponsored blog posts suggesting the VP cancelled his meeting with APC leaders without any proof. We sincerely hope Nigerians are watching. “Like their previous attempts to break us, this has completely failed. We intend to run an issue-based campaign for Osinbajo once he declares. “Since we hosted a well-attended rally of APC card-carrying members from across the nation, many Nigerians have shown interest in the Osinbajo project. Millions of Nigerians are earnestly waiting for the Vice President to declare his intention for 2023. This is just the wish of some evil forces who are holding the nation back. Nigerians will resist them next year,” Azuka said. He ended the statement saying Nigerians should be on the watch out for Osinbajo’s declaration which is coming soonest. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity