Gunmen have killed at least 57 members of a local vigilante group in clashes in northwestern Nigeria, a security source and local residents said on Tuesday, AFP reported. The attack was the latest involving heavily armed criminal gangs known locally as bandits who raid and loot villages, steal cattle and carry out mass kidnappings for ransom across northwest Nigeria. Police confirmed Monday’s violence in the Zuru district of Kebbi State, without giving a casualty figure. But the security source said 57 bodies had been recovered while two local residents said 62 people were killed. Local residents often form informal vigilante units, known as Yansakai to protect villages from bandit raids, though some states banned them after they were accused of abuses and extra-judicial killings. “There was an incident involving Yansakai and bandits which left several dead on both sides,” Nafiu Abubakar, Kebbi State police spokesman, told AFP. “We don’t have a specific toll yet, we are still compiling fatality figures.” Local resident Almu Sallami said vigilantes had mobilised from different villages to take on a large convoy of heavily-armed bandits. Northwest and central Nigeria are a hub of criminal gangs which maintain camps in Rugu forest, straddling Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna and Niger states. The bandits launch periodic attacks on villages in Kebbi state near the border with Zamfara and Niger states and withdraw to their camps, according to police. Security experts have warned bandit gangs who are driven by financial motives are increasingly forging alliances with jihadists from the northeast waging a 12-year old Islamist insurgency. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Bandits kill 57 vigilante members during clashes in Kebbi Bandits kill 57 vigilante members during clashes in Kebbi ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more