Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), under the auspices of Progressive-minded youths, have tackled the former Director-General of the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman for seeking disciplinary action against the National Chairman, Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CCECPC), Mai Mala Buni. Lukman had in a statement on Friday accused the Yobe State governor of frustrating the party from holding its March 26 national convention. The ex-PGF DG also alleged that Governors Yahaya Bello; Kogi state, Hope Uzodinma; Imo state and Dapo Abiodun; Ogun state, were undermining decisions to organise the APC National Convention. But in a reaction on Saturday in Abuja, the group’s Coordinator, Abdullahi Sabo Idris, accused Salihu of engaging in a campaign of calumny. They argued that all efforts made by Salihu to arm-twist members of the PGF to do the biddings of his paymasters led to his inglorious exit in January. Abdullahi who lamented that Salihu has failed to back up his false claims with empirical evidence assured that such do not exist in the first instance. The statement read in parts, “Just yesterday (Friday), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) affirmed the Buni-led committee as the authentic by citing relevant sections of the Electoral Act. “We wonder if Salihu is vaster in-laws than the electoral umpire. We are not bothered by his vituperations as this has been his style of wanting to disrupt a peaceful process at any given opportunity. “We want to reaffirm our unalloyed loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari, who in his wisdom, remains the National Leader of our party and the backbone of the CCECPC. “As a concerned group with democratic principles of the APC at heart, we strongly believe that actions within and intraparty differences should be settled by diplomatic and rational means within the law. Not in a Gestapo or unethical manner. The Nigerian law is explicit as it has been established in the statement by INEC. The constitution of our party is also clear on modes of operation and change of leadership within the party. “By ‘Progressive’, our party lay emphasis on ethics, principles, laws and orderliness for 21st-century partisan politics. And as the ruling party, we have the moral duty to be the perfect democratic example for others. Therefore we urge Mr Salihu Lukman and his cronies to follow the path of honour. “We will resist any attempt by rumour-mongers who attempts to distract members of the CCECPC from carrying out their constitutional responsibility and putting our party in the path of prosperity.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more