Chairman Senate Committee on Aviation and Senator representing Kogi West, Smart Adeyemi has urged the electorate in his Senatorial ticket to thank Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello for the little success he has achieved for his constituent in the Ninth Senate. Senator Adeyemi said this on Wednesday when the Bunu Development Association delegation led by Pastor Johnson Kolawole paid him a courtesy visit in his office at the National Assembly in Abuja. Senator Adeyemi said he remained grateful to Governor Bello for ensuring that he picked the ticket of the All Progressives Congress and ensured his victory at the election where he defeated his main rival and candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Senator Dino Melaye. He reminded the Association that the Governor put his integrity on the line to ensure that he was re-elected, and noted that if his performance has been abysmal, the Governor would have been held responsible or been accused of imposition. Senator Smart recalled that Governor Yahaya Bello participated fully and vigorously in his campaign, and the singular act of putting his reputation on the line will remain indelible and evergreen. The Senator, therefore, charged those who are commending him to rather commend God Almighty, Governor Yahaya Bello, who provided a platform for him and also gave his undiluted support towards his candidature and of course, the electorates. He assured the delegation that he would by no means let God, the Governor and the people of Kogi State down in carrying out his mandate. On agitation for zoning of the governorship ticket to Kogi West in the next governorship election, the Chairman Senate Committee on Aviation said Governor Bello’s successor would be decided by him. He urged his guests to continue to pray to God to minister to the leadership of the party and the leader of the party, in the person of Governor Yahaya Adoza Bello to identify candidates with proven track records, who will be committed to building on the latter foundation. He also promised to continue to give maximum support to Governor Bello and President Muhammadu Buhari. The delegation stated unequivocally that their visit was merely for solidarity to assure the Senator that Bunu Communities appreciate his good works on behalf of the masses. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details