A delegation of the Muslim Association of Nigeria (MAN), Ibadan branch, last week, paid a courtesy visit to the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Moshood Olalekan Alli Balogun, at his Alarere palace in Ibadan. During the visit, prayers were said for protection, good health and longevity for the king as well as prosperity for Ibadan, Oyo State and Nigeria in general. The prayer session was led by the association’s missioner, Alhaji A.A. Amuzat. The high-power MAN delegation, comprising about 30 elders and officers, was led by the chairman of the organisation, Alhaji I.O.R Abdul Ganiy. Other members of the delegation are a former secretary to the government of old Oyo State, Alhaji S.O. Oladapo; Alhaji M.A. Oyero, Alhaji Amidu Adedokun, Alhaji R.S. Oyebamiji, Professor Folarin Ahmad, Alhaji I.G. Salau, vice chairman, Dr (Mrs) Arike Fasasi, Alhaja A.A. Oyebamiji and a host others. In a remark, Alhaji Oladapo praised Allah for enabling Oba Balogun, together with whom he grew, to emerge as the king of the largest city in West Africa. He said Ibadan was now at a vantage position for having a high-profile king like Oba Balogun who, according to him, is vast in education and culture and is well connected. He expressed optimism that the traditional ruler would harness his endowments to take the city to the next level. Presenting the congratulatory letter to Oba Balogun on behalf of the association, Oladapo prayed for breakthrough for the city and the completion of the ongoing ultramodern Olubadan palace during Balogun’s reign. Alhaji Oyero led the presentation of gifts, including branded souvenirs, to the traditional ruler. Oba Balogun expressed gratitude to MAN for the visit and offered the association royal blessings. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Muslim Association of Nigeria  Muslim Association of Nigeria Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Muslim Association of Nigeria  Muslim Association of Nigeria ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details