The Nsentip Twins Foundation teaches Uyo girls life skills and empowers them with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) training through its Girls Community for Change (GCC) initiative. This was made known by the founders of the foundation, Uforo and Eduek Nsentip, who are nineteen-year-old twin sisters and medical students of the University of Uyo. According to the sisters, the training will hold this Sunday; but the eight-month GCC empowerment initiative has been on since last December and will end in July. Uforo stated that the GCC is for girls aged 12 – 25 years, and it aims at equipping them with basic life skills, self-defence (Shotokan Karate), security, self-advocacy, and entrepreneurial skills with the purpose of tackling problems such as period poverty, inaccessibility to quality education, substandard education for social change, inequality, gender-based violence (GBV), mental health and other issues relating to girls development. “Also, we are working towards sponsoring girls who cannot access quality education in order for them to achieve their career and educational goals,” Uforo said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Eduek, on the other hand, stated that their latest work on activism is a petition on the ‘Inclusion of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in educational curriculum globally’. “We have reached over 9000 signatures from some United Nations officials, celebrity activists, change-makers, to mention a few, which is an evidence that everyone is in need of positive change,” Eduek added. Uforo seized the opportunity to charge the Federal Government to be serious with girls and women’s development through intentional and implementable programmes that are in line with the UNSDGs. Eduek enjoined the government to give girls access to quality education. She charged the government to formulate and implement more policies to end violence, child marriage and sexual assault against girls and women. “The government should increase the number of women in the workforce and in the seat of leadership in order to achieve more development,” Eduek added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more