Bauchi State House of Assembly has passed into law, the Bill for a Law to establish the State and Local Government Contributory Pension Scheme in the state. The bill was passed into law in the Thursday plenary of the House presided over by the Speaker, Abubakar Y Suleiman after report of the joint House Committee on Local Government, Finance and Public Service on a Bill for a Law to establish State and Local Government Contributory Pension Scheme was laid by the Chairman of the Committee Hon. Dan’umma Bello representing Giade Constituency. As contained in the report, the Committee observed that the Bill aspires to ensure that every person who had worked in the public service and self-employed person who participated in the scheme of the State received his benefits as at when due. It further contained that the Scheme will invariably assist individuals by ensuring that they save in order to cater for their livelihood during old age, by so doing, it has been codified with a uniform set of rules and regulations and standards for the administration and payment of retirement benefits in the public service of the State and Local Governments. The Committee further observed that the Bill provided that a retiree is entitled to a maximum of 300% of his total annual emolument as a gratuity for 35 years of service and 80% for pension as Judges, Inspector General of Police and Academic Staff of Universities who retires as Professor get 100% of their total emolument as pension. The Report stated that the Bill wore national outlook as it was introduced and implemented by the Federal Government in 2004 and some states have already implemented it to the brim while others are evidently striving to domesticate. The Committee, therefore, recommended that the timeframe for reporting the activities of the Scheme to the Governor should be extended to April end of every year so that the management should have enough time for comprehensive compilation. It also recommended that to avoid non-remittance of deducted funds to Pension Funds Administrators, periodic reports of the entire pension transactions under the scheme should be sent to the Bauchi State House of Assembly for Special Session and proper legislative appreciation. According to the Joint Committee, based on the public opinion elicited during a public hearing conducted, the Bill should be allowed to undergo third reading, the House unanimously approved the recommendations of the Committee. Thereafter, Majority Leader, Tijjani Muhammad Aliyu requested the House to allow the Bill for a Law to establish State Local Government Contributory Pension Scheme in the State to undergo third reading. After the Speaker put the motion to voice voting, the House unanimously approved and the Speaker thereafter asked the Clerk of the House, Umar Yusuf Gital Esq to carry out the third reading. The House then adjourned to 29th March 2022, as moved and seconded by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Bauchi Assembly passes bill  Bauchi Assembly passes bill Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Bauchi Assembly passes bill  Bauchi Assembly passes bill ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more