Adamawa State government has commended the Nigerian Breweries Plc for fulfilling its promise of donating a 200-seater auditorium to Concordia College, Yola, a private secondary school in the state, for producing the winner of the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year award. The Secretary to the State Government, Umar Bindi, gave this commendation at the inauguration of the auditorium recently, saying the facility as a great investment in education would greatly improve teaching and learning not only in the school, but also in the entire Adamawa State. According to a statement made available by the Nigerian Breweries Plc in Lagos, the secretary, who was represented at the event by the state’s Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Wilbina Jackson, also commended the teacher of the school who won the award, Miss Oluwabunmi Anani, and her school for the achievement. He said the accomplishment was a great honour not only to the teacher and her school alone but also to Adamawa State and its people. He reaffirmed that the state government would continue to give a deserving priority to education, both in the public and private schools in the state. In his remark at the event, the chairman of Nigerian Breweries, Chief Kola Jamodu, stressed the importance of education and teachers to national development. He said this was why the Nigerian Breweries had consistently invested in the sector. The chairman, represented by the Head of Public and External Relations of the company, Uzodinma Odenigbo, also applauded both the winner of the award and her school, as well as the Adamawa State government, saying “the achievement is an indication of how the people of the state value education.” While expressing hope that the facility would be of immense benefit to the intended users, he said that Nigerian Breweries Plc would remain committed to contributing to the development of education in the country and across other levels. Meanwhile, Maltina Teacher of the Year Award is an initiative of the Nigerian Breweries Plc under its social arm, titled ‘Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund,’ to identify the most diligent and dedicated teachers in secondary schools nationwide and to celebrate and reward them on a yearly basis. The programme has been on since seven years ago. A total of seven teachers including Oluwabunmi Anani and several others have been produced so far as the national overall and the state winners, respectively. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details