PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday expressed worry about the rising number of graduate unemployment in Nigeria and directed the National Universities Commission to ensure a comprehensive review of the curricula of all programmes in the nation’s universities while placing a premium on entrepreneurship. He equally told the Governing Councils and management of public Universities in Nigeria to shun corruption by making sure that government funds released to universities are judiciously utilised in erecting top-class facilities as exemplified by iconic structures on National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) campus. Buhari who is the visitor, spoke at the 11th Convocation ceremony of NOUN, where a total of 69 students bagged First-Class Division out of the 22,250 students the University graduated at the ceremony. He said the nation’s educational curriculum must be geared towards placing emphasis on entrepreneurship education, adding that there should be a paradigm shift in the focus and orientation of graduates towards employment opportunities. Buhari added that realisation of this objective lies with the universities to develop new curricula that will lay emphasis on self-employment. He was represented by the Director Overseeing the office of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr David Gende. He said: “It is pleasing to note that the National Universities Commission (NUC) is about to conclude the comprehensive review of the curricula of all programmes in our universities and placing premium on entrepreneurship. This as we all know, is a driver to increase productivity and reduction in unemployment figures among our youths. “The Federal Government through various interventions has created the enabling environment in support of this drive. It is our hope that our graduates will utilise these opportunities by embracing all the various programmes that have been put in place,” he said. While expressing commitment of his administration to making education affordable to all, President Buhari admitted that the root cause of most of the recorded crises of nationhood experienced in Nigeria were as a result of ignorance which can only be prevented through the provision of education. He noted that NOUN as the only single mode, Open and Distance Learning (ODL) institution in Nigeria, was established by the Federal Government to bring equitable access to all eligible Nigerians who are being constrained by the limited space in the conventional universities. He said he was delighted that the Open University is indeed delivering on its mandate by taking affordable University education to the doorsteps of Nigerians irrespective of their location, tribe, sex and religion. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details