Lagos State government on Friday said that this year’s edition of Bola Tinubu Colloquium will examine emerging global development issues and the importance of good governance for Nigeria to be an influential and respected member of the international community. The State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, who is also the Chairman, Media and Publicity Sub-committee, of the Colloquium, which is in its 13th edition, made this known in a statement made available to newsmen, saying that the event would be presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari as Chairman, while the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is the chief host. He said former Vice-Chancellor of University of Ibadan (UI), Prof. Olufemi Bamiro, is the keynote speaker, at the event which is holding on Tuesday, March 29, 2022, at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, saying that the University don is expected to engage the central theme, “Pivoting Nigeria into the New World Order: Imperatives of Good Governance.” Omotoso said the Colloquium will also feature a panel session where some of Nigeria’s leading technology entrepreneurs will discuss, “Technology, Entrepreneurship and the future of work.” According to him, the panel discussion to be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko will have Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant. “Other panellists include: Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soilless Farms; Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank; Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes,” the commissioner said. Speaking on the theme of the Colloquium and the planning, Mr Omotoso described that Asiwaju Tinubu, the man in whose honour the annual event is being organized, as an extra-ordinary statesman who had committed himself to make Nigeria one of the most prosperous nations. “The theme speaks to the person and values of Asiwaju Tinubu. To celebrate his 70th birthday, this year’s colloquium theme is most appropriate. “We are talking about an outstanding public servant, who is an advocate of good governance in Nigeria and Africa. He demonstrated this as governor of Lagos in 8years where he laid the solid foundation for the progress and prosperity of Lagos State that we all talk about today,” Omotoso said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…13th Bola Tinubu colloquium  13th Bola Tinubu colloquium Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…13th Bola Tinubu colloquium  13th Bola Tinubu colloquium ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details