Governor Udom Emmanuel has concluded plans to dissolve the Akwa-Ibom State Executive Council (SEC). This is one of the major resolutions reached at Thursday’s SEC meeting presided over by the governor at the Exco Chambers of the Government House, Uyo, the state capital. The governor, who had already sent a list of five commissioner-nominees to the State House of Assembly for screening and clearance, has explained that the dissolution of the cabinet became necessary for those with political ambitions to follow them through. Two commissioners including Akan Okon (Economic Development/Ibom Deep Seaport) and his counterpart in charge of Labour and Manpower Development, have recently resigned from the cabinet to pursue their political dreams. Besides, the governor’s Chief of Staff (CoS), Akparawa Ephraim Inyang-eyen, was the first to be eased off the cabinet to pursue his senatorial ambition in Eket Senatorial District. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity