Former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ladipupo Adebutu has picked the expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Ogun State in next year’s election. The aspirant stormed the national secretariat of the party in Abuja along with his supporters on Thursday to pick the forms, saying afterwards that if the primary election of the party is conducted in a free and fair manner, he will be the candidate to beat. He also expressed confidence that if he becomes the PDP candidate for the exercise, he will win the Ogun State gubernatorial election. Speaking to reporters after the collection of the forms, the former lawmaker recalled the persecution he had experienced, affirming that he has paid his dues as he had contributed immensely to the growth of PDP in the state. He said despite all odds against his aspiration in the past, he remained in the PDP because of his firm belief that with the cooperation of all stakeholders, PDP will regain power in the state. Adebutu stated: “I aspired to serve the people of Ogun State as governor. The party chose me to be the PDP candidate but some people circumvented it and the court stopped me. “But today, Ogun PDP is one and the party is truly united. There is one electoral college and we are approaching the 2023 election as a united front.” On his chances of emerging the PDP candidate, he added: “With a free and fair contest, I believe I shall be the party’s nominee, I shall be the PDP candidate. “I will be able to bring to play the manifesto of the PDP and my personal aspirations and programmes for the people of Ogun State.” On the relationship between himself and the incumbent governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, he said he has nothing personal against him as he described the state chief executive as a cousin. He explained that despite their family relationship, he has no problem holding a different political view with the governor on the basis of ideology. “In Iperu (their town), we are cousins and we live together as cousins though in different political parties. There is no problem with that,” he said. While declining to comment on Abiodun’s performance as governor, Adebutu said: “I don’t want to rate the incumbent. I won’t say they have failed in doing roads, failed in education or health. Rather, I will tell you what PDP I’d be capable of doing. “By the time PDP come to power, during PDP government, all separatists agitations will be diminished. The interest of different components of this nation is not well satisfied under the APC government. Under PDP, Nigeria will return to a peaceful atmosphere.” “My intention is to continue on a journey which we have pursued for a few years. We have devoted self for decade in-service to mankind because we believe this is our heritage,” Adebutu stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity