Equities trading on Wednesday ended on a positive note as the local bourse reversed fifth-day consecutive negative sessions. Basically, the All-Share Index (ASI) of the Nigerian Exchange Limited gained 0.28 per cent in the session to stand at 47,287.09 basis points, thus bringing both the month-to-date and year-to-date performance of the All-Share Index to stand at -0.23 per cent and 10.70 per cent respectively. Investors, therefore, earned N71 billion in the session as the market capitalisation followed suit the direction of the ASI to stand at N25.485 trillion, a 0.28 per cent gain from the N25.414 trillion it stood at the end of the previous trading session. Market breadth also closed in favour of the bulls, as 30 stocks in the gainers’ chart were pitted against 12 counters in the losers’ chart. Presco, PharmaDeko, Linkage Assurance, Royal Exchange and UPDC led the top gainers as the best five performing stocks, with Presco taking the lead with a 10.00 per cent increase in its value. Conversely, Ellah Lakes, May&Baker, Neimeth Pharmaceutical, Niger Insurance and Cutix populated the top five losers chart. Most sectoral indices closed positively, save for NGX Banking and NGX Industry sectors that lost 0.04 per cent and 0.01 per cent respectively, while NGX Growth and NGX ASEM closed flat. However, market activity as measured by the volume of trades, waned on Wednesday with daily traded volume standing at 336.305 units, a 55.45 per cent decrease from a volume of 754.933 million units traded in the previous session. Conversely, market turnover improved in the session as it went up by 61.09 per cent to stand at N5.860 billion as against a value of N3.638 billion recorded in the previous trading session. FBN Holdings was the toast of Investors as it made the most traded stock, flanked in the trading session by Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO), United Capital, Zenith Bank and Japaul Gold to complete the list of the five most traded stocks in terms of volume of trades. With regards to the value of traded stocks, GTCO took the lead of the top five performers as well, followed by FBN Holding, Nestle Nigeria, Zenith Bank and United Bank. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more