The All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (APC CECPC) on Wednesday released its much-anticipated zoning of national offices ahead of its national convention fixed for March 26. The Zoning Committee led by Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman AbdulRazak had submitted its report to the acting chairman of the APC CECPC, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello on Tuesday. The list confirmed the zoning of the national chairman to the North Central geo-political zone. Incidentally, the Niger State Governor and acting national Chairman of the APC CECPC is from the North Central. His zone will equally produce Deputy National Secretary, Deputy National Legal Adviser and Deputy National Publicity Secretary. As reported by Tribune Online, Southeast and the South-south lost out in the power game for the strategic position of national secretary as it was zoned to the southwest by the zoning committee. Investigation revealed that while certain chieftains of the party were scheming to get the office retained in the South-south, the southeast governors of Imo and Ebonyi were plotting to secure the office for their zone. Aside from the office of the National Secretary, the office of the National Youth Leader was also zoned to the southwest along with Deputy National Auditor. The South-South geo-political zone will produce the National Publicity Secretary and National Women Leader at the convention. It will also produce the Deputy National Treasurer and Deputy National Welfare Secretary. The Southeast is expected to produce Deputy National Chairman (South), National Treasurer and National Welfare Secretary. The zone will also produce the Deputy National Organising Secretary. The North East will produce the Deputy National Chairman (North) and the National Auditor in the substantive National Working Committee to emerge in March. The geo-political zone of President Muhammadu Buhari has the positions of National Legal Adviser and National Organising Secretary zoned to it while the Federal Capital Territory has the office of National Disabled Leader zoned to it. Inaugurating the National Convention Committee, the Niger State Governor appealed to them to deliver on their assignment conscientiously while he promised that the Caretaker Committee would stick to the March date to produce a new National Working Committee. Zonal officers are expected to emerge at zonal congresses in each of the geo-political zones. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more