Osun State High Court sitting in Osogbo on Wednesday dismissed a “no case submission” filed by the counsels to the Owner of Hilton Hotel, Abdulrahmon Adedoyin and seven others in the murder case of Timothy Adegoke, the NBA student of Obafemi Awolowo University, OAU, Ile-Ife with affirmation that, the defendants facing trial in the alleged killing have case to answer. At resume hearing of the case ,the prosecution counsel, M.O Omosun prayed the court to dismiss submission of counsels to defendants on a no case submission as prema facie had been established based on all evidences presented before the court. In her ruling, Justice Adepele Ojo said, the prosecution was been able to establish a prema facie through all the witnesses, that Timothy Adegoke lodged at the Hilton Honour Hotel, Ile-Ife and that his body was interfered with and disrespectfully evacuated. The court however considered all exhibits presented by all witnesses and admitted in evidence and the judge discharged the “no case submission” filed by counsels to all the defendants and ordered that they enter their defence. While responding, Kehinde Eleja, SAN, one of the defence counsels, said they were not ready to immediately file their defense since they were not sure of what the ruling would be and sought for extension of time to prepare for their defense. Further hearing on the matter has however been fixed till 25th of April, 2022. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details