The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, has stated that the Federal Government through the Ministry has released the sum of N142.6m for the purpose of research development in the Mineral and Metal sector. Adegbite stated this in Abuja, on the occasion of the stakeholders Validation Exercise for the Research Development and Collaboration with some Nigeria Tertiary Institutions. Adegbite named the institutions as; University of Ibadan, University of Port-Harcourt, University of Lagos, University of Jos, Ebonyi State University, Nasarawa State University, Federal University of Technology, The Kaduna Polytechnic, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University amongst others. He added that these Tertiary Institutions, after due diligence, were carefully selected by independent faculty of five (5) erudite Professors of proven integrity who have contributed to the growth of the sector. The research covers areas of Mining Engineering, Metallurgy and Mineral Processing, Geological Mapping, Industrial and Minerals Utilization/Exports and Energy Minerals. The Minister further stated that in order to succeed in fulfilling the mandate of the Ministry on job creation, raising the sector’s contribution to GDP of the country and promoting sustainable mining, the Ministry released the sum of N142.6million to achieve this collaboration with the stakeholders whose knowledge of the sector could facilitate the journey to shared mining in Nigeria. He also added that in order to show the importance of the collaboration and to authenticate the findings of the research, it is also important for stakeholders to validate the exercise hence the essence of the workshop today. The Permanent Secretary, Dr. Oluwatoyin Akinlade, who was represented by the Director Special Duties, Mr. Yisau Adepoju, said in the Ministry’s effort to rejuvenate the Mining Sector it finds it crucial to collaborate with this reputable institutions to carry out this research in specific areas which is intended to open up new frontiers in the Mining sector by providing the much needed data on the Nigerian Solid Mineral sector endorsement . Dr. Akinlade added that it is gratifying that these reputable institutions have completed their works. For their findings to be acceptable, it is customary, like in any other piece of research work it remains only an academic exercise until critical stakeholders come together to give it life so as to pave the way towards its acceptance and implementations. This is what gave rise to this validation exercise by eminent stakeholders. She stated that the Validation of the research Findings by all the stakeholders will unlock the potentials and add value to the Mining and Mineral Sector. The Permanent Secretary, also told the stakeholders that the Ministry is ready to partner with interested stakeholders in the areas of research, exploration, exploitation, beneficiation and the whole length of the value chain in the sector especially the gaps that would be identified in this research to create confidence as well as attract investors to the sector. The Chairman of the committee, Prof. Gbenga Okunola, in his remarks thanked the Ministry for giving them the privilege to serve and told the gathering that nations develop as a result of collaborative research and development and that the objective of the Steering Committee is to help achieve the whole garment of the development mantra in the Mineral and Metal sector through collaborative research works such as this. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FG releases N142.6m  FG releases N142.6m Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FG releases N142.6m  FG releases N142.6m ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details