Nigeria is poised to strengthen its bilateral relationship with the Republic of Cuba using arts and culture as potential tools The Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Chief Olusegun Runsewe made this revelation in his office when he played host to the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, Clara Escandell, who paid him a courtesy visit. Runsewe revealed that Nigeria and the Republic of Cuba have very rich cultural heritage adding that the similarities that also exist both in music and dance needs to be explored to create room for easy affiliation. The Director General remarked that the NCAC had provided a platform for the diplomatic community to gather and rub minds on cultural issues to engender cultural diplomacy. He further stated that the International Arts and Crafts (INAC) Expo also brought the international community under one umbrella to network their arts and crafts to the rest of the world. Runsewe however promised that during this year’s INAC Expo, the Republic of Cuba would feature prominently and would be given an opportunity to speak to the International Media on ways to collaborate with youths for possible cultural exchange programmes. Runsewe praised Ambassador Escandell for dressing in Nigerian attire for the visit and promised to visit the Republic of Cuba soon. Speaking earlier, the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, Clara Escandell said she was in the Council to see the man who had projected the image of Nigeria culturally both home and abroad and tirelessly working to use Nigerian arts and culture to show the need for peaceful coexistence among countries of the world. Ambassador Escandell added that she was also driven by the burning desire to acquaint herself with the council’s programmes as the seat of culture in the country. She reiterated the need for stronger collaboration between the NCAC and the Republic of Cuba to harness the rich cultural heritage of both countries for export. The Cuban Ambassador used the visit to call on the diplomatic community to always make good use of culture as a veritable tool to build strong bilateral relationships in their missions. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Nigeria to use arts  Nigeria to use arts Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Nigeria to use arts  Nigeria to use arts ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more