THE National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) is to graduate about 22,624 students at its 11th Convocation ceremony. The University Registrar, Mr Felix Edoka, made this known in a statement in Abuja, saying the ceremony, which is scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 26, would be held simultaneously across the university’s 103 study centres across the country. The on-site and off-site mode of convocation has been adopted for this year’s ceremony, which is unprecedented in the history of NOUN. The statement made available to newsmen by Ibrahim Sheme, Director, Media and Publicity, said all first-class graduands, award winners, master’s degree and PhD graduands will hold an on-site ceremony at the university headquarters located in Jabi, Abuja, while all first degree and Post Graduate Diploma (PGD) graduands will hold the ceremony at their study centres in the various state capitals. The convocation would feature awards of bachelor’s degrees, postgraduate diplomas, master’s and doctorate degrees at the Convocation Arena, NOUN, while other graduands are to participate from their respective study centres by joining the virtual convocation site on https://www.livestream.nou.edu.ng. The ceremony will, however, be preceded by the convocation lecture on Friday, March 25, to be delivered by Professor Osita M. Ogbu, the Director, Institute of Development Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Nigeria, Nsukka. He will discuss the topic: “The Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Challenge of Poverty Reduction in Nigeria,” which will take place on-site at NOUN headquarters. Meanwhile, other graduands (first degree and PGDs) are to participate from their respective state capitals by joining off-site/virtual on https://www.livestream.nou.edu.ng. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  NOUN set to graduate 22,627 students at 11th convocation  NOUN set to graduate 22,627 students at 11th convocation  NOUN set to graduate 22,627 students at 11th convocation NOUN set to graduate 22,627 students at 11th convocation ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity