Abiola Adeneye is the Creative Director and CEO of Biola Brentwood fashion label, a clothing line that caters for sophisticated women who, according to her, want to stay true to their indigenous African roots. After featuring at the African Fashion Week, Toronto 2021 in Canada, she made her debut presentation at the recently concluded Paris Fashion Week, and launched her latest collection tagged ‘African Beauty’. The collection featured lively African fabrics in distinct styles showcasing the beauty in African culture and tradition. The outfits which have ready to wear pieces infused in the collection were made with the intention to fit every woman, not excluding the plus-size ladies. Biola Adeneye, said, “Sometimes I believe that foreigners appreciate the richness of our culture more than we ourselves and this reflects in how much orders we get from outside the country. After our first runway show at African Fashion Week Toronto 2021, our orders skyrocketed. “This encouraged me to continue showcasing African fashion to the global brand. We just got back from Paris Fashion Week and it’s so incredible how our collections stood out on the runway. The collection as the name implies reflects the fruitfulness of African fashion hence the semblance of flowers, leaves and lively colours.” Biola Brentwood is making her impact in the fashion industry by showcasing Nigeria and Africa on the global stage through her brand. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity