In pursuit of its main objective of ensuring the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next president come 2023, the SWAGA’23 led by its National Chairman, Sen. Dayo Adeyeye, has embarked on a sensitization and consultation tour to the North Central zone of Nigeria beginning with Kogi State. At the palace of the Attah of Igalaland, Matthew Alaji Opaluwa Oguche, on Thursday, March 17, 2022, the revered traditional rulers despite his bereavement created time to welcome the team and also prayed for the success of Tinubu in his bid for the presidency. The group condoled with the traditional ruler on the demise of his brother and prayed for the soul of the departed. On Friday, March 18, the team in the company of Alhaji Ibrahim Raji, the North Central Coordinating Chairman for NCA proceeded to Okene to visit the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Dr Attah Ado Ibrahim, at his expansive palace. In his speech, Senator Adeyeye commended the traditional for the unique manner in which he has conducted the affairs of his people despite being above 90 years of age. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He also took time to commend Governor Yahaya Bello for his efforts in maintaining the security of the state and its people despite the challenges being faced everywhere. He further sought the support and prayers of the traditional ruler for the success of his principal in the coming race. In his reaction, the host went down the memory lane as regards his sojourn in Lagos, his relationship with the state and its people, his school days and further said “on my honour and with my whole heart I pray that Asiwaju Tinubu succeeds on this project while I leave the rest of my prayers between me and my creator. I am very happy today for this visit.” The train moved to Kabba in Okun land and was received by the Obaro of Kabba Oba Solomon Oladele Owoniyi. The traditional ruler eulogised Tinubu for his role in the mentorship of others regardless of their ethnic backgrounds and referred to Hon James Faleke an indigene of Okun land who has benefited from such mentorship. He wished Tinubu well and pray he will succeed to do more for the benefit of Nigerians. He appreciated the team for visiting while admonishing them not to betray Tinubu now or in future. The visitations were rounded up at the palace of Maigari of Lokoja, Alhaji Mohammed Kabiru Maikarfi where the traditional ruler prayed for the team while pledging further prayers for the project towards 2023. The National Secretary of the group, Hon. Bosun Oladele in the company of Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Hon. Rotimi Makinde, Hon. Oloruntoba Oke, Hon Julius Oloro, Hon. Mukaila Musa, Hon. Gani Omoluka, Alhaji Ibrahim Raji, Hajia Fatima Bello, Hajia Azeezat Yusuf Ogundipe and Madam Yinka Olaiya Bethola. The formal inauguration of the North Central Agenda NCA Kogi state branch also took place on Saturday. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs SWAGA’23 team visits traditional rulers in North Central over Tinubu’s ambition SWAGA’23 team visits traditional rulers in North Central over Tinubu’s ambition Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa SWAGA’23 team visits traditional rulers in North Central over Tinubu’s ambition ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team