President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday night directed the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to refund the money paid for nomination forms by aspirants that have now been compelled to drop out from the party’s national chairmanship race. This followed a meeting he held with some of the aspirants at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, where he was said to have announced his preference for Senator Abdulahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the coveted post. In a speech at the occasion, President Buhari affirmed that the consensus option that the party has decided on is consistent with the spirit of democracy and the Nigerian Constitution. He warned that the APC cannot afford to be divided a few hours to its National Convention. The President said: “Your Excellencies, I have already given my own input and other recommendations on the way forward in both my 25th February, 2022 meeting with the Chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee and my 13th March, 2022 letter to the Chairman of the APC Governors Forum. “Your Excellencies, With the convention only two days away I implore you to come together and sort out all the remaining party positions so that within the next 24 hours we can arrive at a Unity List which we can take to the convention. “Finally all those who have bought forms indicating interest and have been dropped should have their money refunded without delay. “I count on the support and understanding of all of Your Excellencies present here today.” The President stressed the need for party members to collectively ensure the success of the convention, thanking the aspirants for what they are doing, their partnership and fortified alliances with the Federal Government over the years. He warned that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) must not be allowed to return with “dirty hands” to power. Buhari stated: “When we came together to form the All Progressives Congress, nearly 8 years ago our goal was National Salvation, our resolve was unshakable, our motivation was patriotic and noble. “Consequently, by the Grace of God we were rewarded with victory in the 2015 General Elections in a free and fair election. “Over the last seven years we have done our best to deliver good governance to the country. We have guaranteed national food security, we have provided modern infrastructure to kick-start economic growth and we have implemented the most comprehensive social welfare programmes in our history. “Along the way, our party has survived shocks and attempts to derail it. Our government has also had to endure the worst economic crisis with the free fall of oil prices from an average of $100 per barrel over 15 years of PDP government to an average of $30 – $50 until the recent energy crisis. “We need to remind ourselves of these achievements and not be diverted by petty quarrels and unseemly jockeying for positions. It will be very sad and regrettable development if these manifest gains are frittered away as a result of internal dissent and rivalry. We must avoid narrow focus and inordinate personal ambitions at the expense of our party’s common good. We must stop frivolous and diversionary litigation when the Party’s reconciliation processes are available for settling disputes. “We must restore sanity and purpose in the affairs of our party and lead ourselves to victory and safety. “As I remarked when I met Your Excellencies in February 22nd, our aim must be to hand over to an APC Government at the Center and the great majority of states. We must not, by default allow the PDP to get its dirty hands on Government again and return us to the Stone Age. “As I said at that meeting, our Party chose its leadership by consensus. I again plead that we choose our next leadership by consensus. This is consistent with the spirit of democracy, the Party’s Constitution and the Nigerian Constitution.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details