The Oyo State Association of Licensed Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria (ALPSPN), on Wednesday, held a health workshop as part of its effort to improve the health and security of its members. Speaking at the workshop organised to educate the security practitioners on a telemedicine platform with easy access to health services at the Rotary House, Iyaganku, Ibadan, the guest speaker, the managing director of Online Health Company Limited, Dr Temitope Farombi, who spoke on the topic, ‘Digital Access to Health and Security, explained that the benefit of the workshop is to introduce the security practitioners to ways in which technology can be used to improve their health as well as the health of their staff for optimal performance. “Online health company is a telemedicine platform that allows easy access to health services through a proficient online medical application and we have brought that to introduce to the Oyo State private security practitioners so that they can see what is available to them by using technology to improve their health as well as the health of their staff for optimal health improvement and performance. “With your phone, you can have easy access to doctors without having to go from place to place, thereby reducing the waiting time. Also, with your phone you can buy medications, you can do your test booking and it gives you easy access and make it seamless for you. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Another benefit is that we are bringing insurance to them through the Oyo State insurance platform so that they can give to all of their staff, ensure that they are safe and can always constantly contact their doctor when in need. “The mobile app can be downloaded from google play or AppStore and it gives you access to over 40 doctors across 28 specialities at a token,” she said. Meanwhile, the president of the association, Mr Seyi Alaba, disclosed that some of their members in remote places don’t have access to healthcare centres and hospitals hence the reason the organisation is partnering with Ohealth. “Because of the nature of our job, most times, you see security guards standing from morning to night, they have to be active. We decided to look into their health situation and what can be done for some of them who are in remote places where they don’t have access to even primary health care centres. “When we heard of Ohealth, we reached out to them to come and give us health tips, we thought that it is going to be very helpful for members in both rural and urban areas since most of them have smartphones, then they can access doctors via their phones. It will help them as well to maintain their health. “During the COVID-19 lockdown, we have hospitals but we couldn’t access them. A lot of people were sick they didn’t know what to do and we know how bad it could be to self-medicate. With this, we are hoping that the package of the product is going to solve a problem when it comes to health issues concerning our operatives,” he said. The health company also carried out physical examination and blood pressure tests on the security practitioners present. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Private security practitioners association holds health workshop for members in Oyo State ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity