Nigeria’s leading commodities market player, AFEX, on Thursday announced its partnership with the Niger State Ministry of Agriculture and the Niger State Commodity and Export Promotion Agency (NSCEPA) to improve the productivity and livelihoods of Niger State farmers and to empower the youths in the state. The partnership was announced at an MoU signing ceremony in Minna, Niger State. The partnership will see AFEX developing processing facilities including a sesame cleaning centre in Lapai/Agaie. It will also include the deployment of operations that will enable financial inclusion for Niger State farmers alongside the provision of storage and extension services that will facilitate crop standardization and protection. As a party in the MoU, AFEX will also deploy its Agric Service Provider model in Niger State, which would include supporting, training, and financing other commercial agriculture service providers in the state. “Nigeria’s rural and market potential is being harmed by a combination of financial and infrastructure inadequacies,” AFEX CEO, Ayodeji Balogun said during the MOU signing. “Infrastructure shortfalls are mostly related to the unavailability of adequate and affordable storage for farmers, among other things,” he explained, adding that “limited financing also has an effect on the value chain from a demand and supply standpoint.” Balogun indicated that with the partnership with the Niger State Ministry of Agriculture and the Niger State Commodity and Export Promotion Agency, things are about change positively for the Niger State farmers. “We are on a mission to increase the productivity and livelihoods of farmers in Niger State,” Balogun said. The Director-General of the Niger State Commodity and Export Promotion Agency (NSCEPA), Fatima Wushishi, who spoke at the event, said “this strategic partnership with AFEX will provide technical expertise, finance, direct markets to our farmers, technology and warehouse management and crop handling infrastructure and grading standards required to aggregate and trade commodities in a formal structured and standardized manner.” “This will ensure quality, consistency and safety of the goods from the farm gate to the destination markets both domestic and international,” Wushishi said, adding that the agency “looks forward to working with AFEX towards achieving common economic development goals thereby supporting the State government in realizing its vision of the export-led transformation of the Niger State economy.” AFEX, known for its vision to make Africa self-reliant in food, has over 300,000 farmers and 100 agri-businesses registered on its Exchange and has significantly reduced the level of market fragmentation in several states of operation while creating shared prosperity for all stakeholders. The exchange, through its technologies, WorkBench and ComX, is helping track and store relevant data for players in the space to make better-informed decisions. It has also effectively implemented a working formula that creates the avenue for farmer financing as well as working capital financing for agribusinesses, through innovative products listed on its exchange. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…AFEX partners Niger ministry  AFEX partners Niger ministry Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…AFEX partners Niger ministry  AFEX partners Niger ministry ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more