All Progressive Congress (APC), in Anambra, has picked 180 delegates from the 21 local government areas of the state to represent the state at the party’s national convention, scheduled for Saturday, March 26, 2022, at Eagle Square, Abuja. The State Chairman of the party, Chief Basil Ejidike, disclosed this during the inauguration of the state zonal and local government executive committees members at the party headquarters Awka, on Wednesday. According to Ejidike, the delegates were selected, according to APC Constitution, from the state exco, LGA executive and political officeholders. While congratulating the newly Inaugurated state officers, Ejidike, said; “I wish to restate and draw your attention to the essence of a political party. All political parties’ interest is to win elections and advance the course of their environment and humanity. The APC has all it takes to achieve this and more. Therefore, we must all put our hands on deck to reposition the party, and as well win the 2023 election. As a new family, we are poised to galvanize and harness our diverse potentials and resources to put our party in political positions in our dear state, Anambra. “It is indeed factual that the APC-led Federal Government has benefited Anambra State and people in terms of infrastructural development, human capacity building and empowerment,” the Chairman added. He commended President Mohammadu Buhari, on the ongoing construction of the second Niger Bridge, Enugu-Onitsha expressway and other projects in South East region. Ejidike, also commended the Chairman, APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Yobe State Governor, Mr Mai Mala Buni and Senator Andy Uba, for moving the party forward in Anambra State. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details