A magistrate court in Ilorin, Kwara State has convicted a 73-year-old trader, Bashir Alabi of Gbagba area, Ilorin, for falsification of vehicle documents. Bashir Alabi was handed over to the Police for investigation on March 21, 2022, having been confirmed by the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KW-IRS) Motor Licensing Authority (MLA) office Pake, Ilorin that vehicle documents presented for processing by Bashir were fake. An extensive investigation on the case revealed three other suspects, Ogunmoroti Akindele, 56 years old trader of Kilanko area, Ilorin, Idowu Adebisi, 73 years old, business centre operator at G.R.A, Ilorin and Johnson Ariyo, 32 years old computer operator at G.R.A, Ilorin. The additional three suspects were nabbed by the Monitoring Unit of Kwara State Police Command for having incriminating documents in their possession and for involvement in the trade of printing and selling of fake Kwara State Vehicle documents. A further investigation by the Police also established recovery of forged and fake Kwara State Vehicle documents from the shop of one Jamiu, who is now at large. Having established a case of falsification, forgery and conspiracy by the Police, all suspects were arraigned before Chief Magistrate A. M. Ibrahim on Wednesday. The first suspect, Bashir Alabi pleaded guilty to the offences as charged and the trial Magistrate, Chief Magistrate A. M. Ibrahim gave the accused, a summary trial and eventually sentenced the 73-year-old Bashir to two years imprisonment with an option of fine and the other three suspects, who pleaded not guilty were ordered to be remanded in prison custody, pending further trial of the case. The case was adjourned till April 19, 2022, for mention and/or hearing. Meanwhile, the Executive Chairman, KW-IRS, Shade Omoniyi, has warned individuals in the act of revenue diversion and racketeering to desist from these acts to avoid the wrath of the law. She also enjoined residents of Kwara State to deal directly with revenue officers of KW-IRS at the various revenue touch points located across the state, or transact through the online platforms of the service and desist from illegality and patronage of agents for any revenue transaction. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Court convicts 73-year-old revenue  Court convicts 73-year-old revenue Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Court convicts 73-year-old revenue  Court convicts 73-year-old revenue ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details