The Obi of Awka Ancient Kingdom, His Imperial Majesty, the Eze Uzu 111 of Awka, Obi Austin Ndigwe, has given the immediate past governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, Mrs. Ebele Obiano, seven days ultimatum to appease the gods of the land, for fighting widow of late Chief Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, Mrs Bianca Ojukwu, or face serious consequences. Obi Ndigwe, said that by fighting the widow, Mrs Ebelechukwu Obiano, has desecrated Awka land, according to the custom and tradition. The monarch in a press release he signed and distributed to journalists in Awka, on Friday, said he has given Mrs Obiano seven days to publicly apologise to the entire Igbo people or face serious consequences. He said the actions of the wife of the former governor was sacrilegious, and that as the monarch of the town, he will have to appease the gods of Awka land to avoid calamities. The monarch also said: “She should also tender an unreserved apology to the new Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo for her disgraceful conduct during his inauguration. The same should go for the chief judge of the state who was conducting the swearing in when she descended. “This grave sin was committed in the land of Awka which is known for peace and unity. Therefore, as the traditional ruler of the people and chief custodian of our culture I am under obligation to perform some sacrifices to cleanse our land of this filth and pollution and to appease the gods.” The Obi of Awka said he has long spoken with Bianca Ojukwu who told him that what angered her was that Mrs Obiano walked up to her and called her unprintable names, including querying her presence at the swearing in the ceremony. Ndigwe added that Mrs Obiano’s action was not only against Mrs Ojukwu, but against the late Ojukwu, who is the founder of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), who his widow came to represent. “It must be pointed out that Bianca was not at that ceremony as Bianca, but as a direct representative of our late father and leader, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, her late husband who pioneered APGA. “Therefore, Ebele’s action of casting aspersion on her is an affront on the entire Igbo people. It was indeed on Odumegwu Ojukwu and not on Bianca as a person. This is an insult on Igbo and it must not go unpunished. “It is on record that I took Obiano and his wife, Ebere to Bianca Ojukwu where they knelt down while seeking the party’s governorship ticket. Bianca endorsed Obiano and called on all APGA members including then Governor Peter Obi to support him. “Mrs Ebele Obiano has only 7 days to apologise as demanded and directed or face serous consequences.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Anambra monarch gives Obiano  Anambra monarch gives Obiano Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Anambra monarch gives Obiano  Anambra monarch gives Obiano ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team