A multiple ghastly automobile crash at different locations in Bauchi has claimed 3 lives including a couple while 8 others were injured at various degrees. According to a RTC report from RS12.15 Command, Bara Unit Command, the accident occurred on Thursday, 24/03/2022 at 09:30hrs and was reported at 09:40hrs while operatives of the FRSC arrived at the scene of the crash at 09:50hrs,10 minutes after it happened The accident occurred at Tashan Kaji village few meters away from the Bauchi /Gombe states border along the ever busy bad Bauchi – Gombe highway. It involved two vehicles, a petrol laden tanker, Shino made driven by one Adamu Garba and a Toyota Corolla with registration number, RBC 719 Dn driven by one Babangida Yaro. The accident involved 4 victims, 3
Male Adults and 1 Female Adult though no injuries, 2 people 1 Male Adult and 1 Female Adult, (husband and wife) were killed on the spot of the crash. The victims were taken to Gombe FMC for medical attention and confirmation of deaths as reported by ARC II AHMED while the Rescue Officer was RC Y Saadu. Additional information have it that Babangida Yaro, who until his death was a staff of the Bauchi Office of the Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JEDC), heading the Yelwa Office, in Bauchi died in the crash with his wife. Late Babangida Yaro, who was in his early 50s, was the Customer Service Manager of the Yelwa Office of JED and was said to be traveling to his hometown in Adamawa state for a wedding when the accident claimed their lives leaving behind four children. A close associate of late Babangida Yaro, Ardo Hazzad, confirmed the incident to our Correspondent in a telephone conversation expressing shock saying that the incident has thrown the league of friends into confusion and shock. He said that they were together only 2 days ago with other friends at the stadium field where they always meet to play the game of amateur squash. A visibly shocked Ardo Hazzad said that, “Babangida was with us just two days ago where we always play Badminton. But that day, he looked so quiet and said he was not going to play because he wasn’t feeling well, he only sat and watched us play. He told even me that day that he would be traveling to Adamawa State”. He added that, “We have been friends for about four years now. As I speak now, all our friends are gathered together, about 20 of us, and we’ve just finished praying for the repose of his soul and that of his wife. Ardo Hazad said that, “This incident had thrown us all into great shock because just two days ago we were together and we had a great time together. We will really miss him.” He said the deceased was a very nice and humble person who was kind to people noting that whoever had a problem with his electricity and met him, he always made sure he sorted that issue out. The couple were buried in afternoon afternoon in Adamawa State in accordance with Islamic rites. The second accident involved a Toyota Sienna mini bus which claimed one life at 1450hrs and was reported at 1500hrs while operatives of the FRSC arrived the scene at 1510hrs a period of 10 minutes. The accident occurred at Gumeru village along the ever busy Bauchi – Kano highway involving one private car with REG NO: ABC 755 TS. The car was driven by one Salmanu Tanko while the probable cause of the accident was speed limit violation (SPV). Seven people were involved in the accident out of which one person, a female was killed while six others, 1Male Adult, 1 Male Child, 2 Female Adults and 2 Female Children were injured. The Victims and the Corpse were evacuated and taken to Kafin Madaki General Hospital for treatment and confirmation of death by men of NPF, Kafin Madaki Division as reported by DRC KM CHADI , FRSC STO, GANJUWA LGA. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details