The lawmaker representing Kaduna South in the Lower Chamber, Hon Mukhtar Ahmed Monrovia, has settled outstanding school fees of2,500 orphans in 250 Islamic schools across the constituency. Presenting the N9 million cheque to the Islamiyya Schools, Hon Monrovia said, “Islam teaches about showing care to the orphans, and one of the best ways to do that is to shoulder the responsibility of paying their school fees among other kind gestures.” He explained that since he was elected to represent the people of Kaduna South Federal Constituency, such gesture has been sustained, but this year he decided to increase the number. He said a team was set up to carefully select 10 orphans across 250 Islamiyya schools in the wards comprising Kaduna South Federal Constituency. Similarly, the Lawmaker paid N3 million, National Examination Council (NECO) fees for 185 students from his constituency. The payments covered both students of public and private schools. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, “Education is a lifetime investment. The future is here and we have to build prospects for the young ones. “This is not based on party or other affiliations, but for all eligible students of Kaduna South to ensure a good standard of learning,” he said. He enjoined parents who have children in the Junior classes not to panic as the payment will always continue and will get to them as well. He, therefore, encouraged the students to focus on their academics and score good grades, stressing that he wants a better future for them. “I want you all to be better than myself, Kindly read and pass. “As a representative of the people, I will not rest in providing solutions to the needs of my constituency throughout my tenure in office,” he assured. Some of the parents of the beneficiaries in their various remarks, thanked the lawmaker for the gesture, especially in the aspect of education, saying, he has done excellently by craving a better future for the young ones while praying and pledging their continued support for him. Speaking on behalf of the Imams, the Imam of Umar Bin Khattab Islamic Center, Dr Muhammed Tiamiyyu Suleiman, said the gesture showed by the lawmaker is in accordance with the commandments of Almighty Allah that, “One should spend his wealth for the orphans, the needy and the poor ones” while calling on those who are well to do to emulate such gesture. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Kaduna lawmaker settles school fees for 2,500 orphans, pays NECO for 180 students ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details