Speaker of the Cross River House of Assembly, Mr Eteng Jonah-Williams, has said that he is not aware of any court judgment sacking him or any member of the house. Jonah-Williams said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Calabar, the state capital, on Monday. He said the affected members had not been served with any court order. “As far as I am concerned, I am not aware of any court judgment sacking me or any member because we have not been served with any court order as we speak,” he said. A Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday declared the seats of 20 lawmakers from Cross River vacant over their defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to All Progressives Congress (APC). Justice Taiwo Taiwo dismissed the defence argument that PDP (plaintiff) had no locus standi to institute the case. Meanwhile, Mr Francis Ovat (PDP), representing Obubra 2 State Constituency, has hailed the judgment as sound. “If you are elected into a political party and you hold the people’s mandate, it is wrong for you to jump from one party to the other. Elected officials should learn to stay in one party. “If there is any rancour or crisis in their party, they should stay in the party and resolve it. Jumping from one party to the other kills democracy. The judgment is a good one and it came right on time,” Ovat said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…We are not aware  We are not aware Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…We are not aware  We are not aware ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details