All Progressives Congress (APC) in Plateau State has stated that the defection of the former Speaker, Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon Abok Nuhu Ayuba, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a clear evidence of his betrayal and deliberate attempt to betray the mandate of the people given to him under the platform of the APC. The state chapter of APC in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Mr Slyvanus Namang, pointed out that these and other infractions, including the mismanagement of the House finances, were some of the reasons that members constitutionally applied for his impeachment in October last year. “Therefore, the narrative circulating in the social media purporting that ‘Plateau Speaker Defects to PDP’ is not only misleading but mischievous and an attempt to deceive the gullible public by creating a sense of loss to the APC. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Abok has since his impeachment in 2021 ceased to be the Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly. He has since then not been sighted in any activities of the House at its temporary sitting venue. “It is common knowledge that Rt. Hon. Yakubu Sanda is fully in charge of the State Assembly and has been providing purposeful leadership to the House as it continues to pass laws for the good of the citizens, as well as working with the Executive in ensuring that the mandate of the APC is fully executed in the state. The so-called defection of Abok to the opposition PDP will not in any way affect the business of the House as it is good riddance and relief to the APC.” The APC further posited that it will not miss the former Speaker for defecting to the opposition party where his heart has always been for a long time and with whom he has fought unsuccessfully to derail the APC government in Plateau State, adding that the former Speaker has finally proved its suspicions right by putting his treasure where his heart is. It however assured the people of Jos East that the party will take every legal step necessary to ensure that they are not robbed of their mandate which they gave in good faith and with high expectations. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team