Ibadan family heads, under the aegis of authentic Mogajis of Ibadanland, have vowed to protect the cultural heritage of the city, just as they appealed to the governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, to seek re-election in the 2023 general elections. The Ibadan family heads in a statement released by its spokesperson, Chief Olawale Oladoja, after its meeting on Sunday described the Authentic Mogajis of Ibadanland as a body combatant within the traditional institution ready to protect and defend Ibadanland in the face of intimidation. The statement further held that: “We are for the peace and progress of Ibadanland. We have been protecting the customs and traditions of Ibadanland. We shall continue to tackle anyone who attempts to destroy our tradition.” The Ibadan family heads, during the meeting, urged governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to seek a second term in office come 2023. The leadership of the Authentic Mogajis who signed a communique to that effect include Chief Adekunle Olaonumi, Chief Abduljelil Adanla, Chief Wale Bankole, Chief Ademola Oyewo, Chief Sheriff Adetunji, Chief Olawale Oladoja and Chief Fatai Olanrewaju. The communique reads: “We are using this medium to encourage the governor of our dear state, Mr Seyi Makinde to seek re-election into office during the forthcoming election in 2023. He has demonstrated quality leadership in the areas of infrastructural development, workable policies for education, respect for traditional institutions and effective job creation. “We appreciate sons and daughters of Ibadanland for their support for the new Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun (Ali Okunmade II) during the coronation ceremony. We are assuring them of our utmost support for Ibadan tradition.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more