FEDERAL Government of Nigeria’s policies on agriculture seem to be having positive impact considering the number of emerging integrated rice mills and the multiplier effects on farmers’ output, food availability, job creation and poverty eradication. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has disclosed that over 58 new integrated rice mills have been facilitated through various policies of the Federal Government in the last seven years. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, recently pointed out that rice mills in Nigeria were fewer than 10 in 2015, with a combined capacity of fewer than 350,000 metric tonnes yearly. However, as of January 2022, there were over 68 integrated mills with a combined capacity of three million metric tonnes. Emefiele had explained that the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), introduced in 2015, had a catalyst effect on rice cultivation, processing and other value chain activities, saying about 10 more integrated mills would be opened this year. “Food security remains a cardinal deliverable for every developing economy as it serves as the fulcrum of many other economic development indices,” he said. Also, the apex bank has assured rice millers of collaboration to boost the rice value chain in Nigeria. The governor called on integrated millers in the country to also invest in cultivation of rice paddies to complement smallholders’ production and boost availability of raw materials for their mills while driving the policy of the country to be self-sufficient in rice production. He disclosed this recently in Kano while unveiling Gerewa Rice Mill, an integrated 420-metric-tonne per day rice mill. He urged mill operators to get involved in paddy cultivation as part of their backward integration plans and cooperation with the Nigerian Rice Farmers Association (RIFAN) for sustainability. “The private sector-led Accelerated Agriculture Development Scheme provides long-term financing options to millers to finance commercial farms, land development, irrigation facilities; and other agricultural infrastructure that will enhance the production plan,” Emefiele had said. He said that the quality of milled Nigerian rice was comparable to that of rice produced elsewhere in the world. Head, Farming Initiatives, Olam Nigeria, Mr Reji George, who led the establishment of Olam’s fully integrated, Africa’s largest mechanised commercial farm and milling facility at Rukubi, in Nasarawa State and its massive out-grower scheme), said Nigeria’s rice sector had made significant strides in respect of increased productivity and production volumes of small-holder farmers, thereby increasing the profitability of rice growing, and processors were getting sustainable volumes of high-quality paddies for their mills. Sustainable paddies, to him, is a great factor to consider before establishing a rice mill, indicating that springing up of more mills was due to available and potential great volume of paddies. “And consumers can now access excellent quality rice produced from the world-class milling facilities coming up in the past few years. This turnaround can be attributed mainly to the consistency in the rice policy and its proper implementation, by the Federal Government of Nigeria,” George said. A rice miller and Managing Director, Vertex Rice, Lokoja, Kogi State, Afis Oladejo, explained that the policies of the government on local rice production, processing and consumption, to a great extent, had triggered establishment of new and upgrade of existing rice mills and local rice consumption. “But insecurity on farms around rice-producing belts,” he added, “has led to scarcity and high price of paddies. Insecurity is not only a threat to life but also to food security. It is affecting rice farmers, millers and consumers by driving price of rice up.” Oladejo called on the armed forces and the police to work harder on internal security of life and property to enhance farmers’ productivity and complements various agro-economic policies of the government. Also, the chairman, Bukan Sidi-Lafia Rice Innovation Platform (IP), Nasarawa State and National President, Association of Small-Scale Agro Producers in Nigeria (ASSAPIN), Joshua Jonathan, said policies, ranging from limited forex for food imports, closure of some land borders to supporting smallholder farmers, had improved rice productivity in terms of quantity, quality and increased consumption of locally produced rice in Nigeria. He said: “Before now, our scale of production is small – between 1.5 and 2.0 metric tonnes per hectare, but now, Nigerian farmers’ production average yield is between 4.0 -6.0Mt/ha with improved seeds, new production practices, CBN’s anchor borrowers’ support scheme, other initiatives like off-takers’ arrangements, availability of farmer-friendly small-scale improved technologies, especially in pre and post-harvest handling areas have improved greatly the country’s parboiled milled rice.” He added that importation restriction had helped Nigerians to see the need to invest in agriculture, particularly in the rice sub-sector (large farms, more and bigger processing mills being opened around the country), saying: “this has greatly improved our production capacity and also boosted Nigerians’ desire for home-made rice. In terms rice production, Nigeria is on track.” He, however, said more have to be done in the area of extension service delivery to farmers to sustain the gains. Jonathan said: “There are inadequate extension workers to push the new innovations and technologies to smallholder farmers. Small-holder farmers are producing 70 to 80 per cent of present Nigeria’s rice. They need more support to continue to produce at the economic levels. “Therefore, the government needs to invest more in the sector by making more budgetary allocations to the rice sub-sector to enable farmers to reduce production cost.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.