As part of efforts to proactively combat flood hazards within the Ibadan metropolis, the Oyo State Government through the Ibadan Urban Flood Management Project (IUFMP) has put in place a coordinated system of warning that will alert people in flood prone areas to impending danger six hours before any flooding disaster, to allow them to evacuate their families in order to put an end to loss associated with flooding. The coordinated system known as the Early Warning System (EWS), is a technologically driven effort that involves monitoring water level remotely using wired sensor network to ensure that people living in flood-prone Communities receive appropriate warning within suitable time interval to take effective action to save lives and minimise loss of properties. In Oyo State, the government has put in place structures that will aid the smooth running of the EWS within the Ibadan metropolis by providing money and signing the contract for the provision of equipment for EWS and building two control towers; one in the Ministry of Environment and the second one in the State Emergency Management Authority (SEMA) Speaking on the state government’s efforts to ensure the EWS takes off without hitch, the project coordinator of IUFMP, John Olasunkanmi Sokeye, stated on Wednesday that while flooding can’t be eliminated, it can be reduced to the minimum and it is possible to ensure that lives are not lost through the EWS which the IUFMP just deployed. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, IUFMP wants to use the digitalised EWS to warn people living in areas susceptible to flooding to evacuate before the water overflows its banks to prevent fatalities during unmanageable flooding incidences. He added that 60 per cent of needed equipment will soon arrive from the UK while others are already being installed emphasising that the government already employed six personnel; two IT experts, two meteorologists and two hydrologists to manage the control towers. “Our partners from India, RSMI have trained civil servants to manage the system and Oyo State already has a pool of 30 personnel to drive the process. In two weeks, five government personnel will be travelling to India to understudy their system to update their knowledge. “Also, we will have six control stations which will be located at NIHORT, Ministry of Environment Kings College, Airport, CRIN and Idi Ayunre while we will put gauges in 11 major rivers and streams and the sirens that will raise the alarm will be placed in Police stations or in churches and mosques in flood-prone communities for proper monitoring,” he said. Sokeye, however, appealed to the public not to vandalise the system as it will add no value to them. Also speaking, Murali Krishna, a consultant with RSMI and community assessment expert on the EWS project stated that the system is one of the best technology to curb the devastating effects of flooding, adding that it is the first in Nigeria. He added that understanding the process will save lives and the process has no problems to use as it is modern and simple in procedure. “It is modern easy to understand and there’s no problem in its use because it’s simple. We have started training officers since last year and we will be engaging in community awareness with IUFMP,” Murali added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details