PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has categorically backed Yobe State governor and chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Mai Mala Buni, in a bid by the party to wriggle out of crisis bedeviling it, nine days to its convention. In a letter dated March 16, 2022 which he personally signed and addressed to the governor of Kebbi State and chairman, Progressives Governors’ Forum, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, the president ordered an immediate return to the status quo ante, following the recent controversial attempt to change the CECPC leadership. Buhari also directed that the Buni-led CECPC should, accordingly, be allowed to proceed with all necessary preparations to hold the convention as planned on March 26. The president warned all members of the APC governors’ forum and their followers to desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to further disunity in the ranks of the party and ultimately jeopardise the transition to the convention. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The president sent copies of the letter to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; Buni in his capacity as the CECPC chairman; acting chairman, CECPC, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State; Director-General of the Department of State Service (DSS) and the Inspector-General of Police. Buhari stressed in his letter that the APC faced a grim future due to controversies and uncertainties surrounding its planned convention aimed at electing new national officers. The letter of the president came after he met with Buni in London, United Kingdom, days after a delegation of other party leaders and ministers met with Buhari, who is currently on medical vacation in the United Kingdom. The battle for supremacy within the APC over the planned convention took a dramatic dimension when the governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, announced he was assuming the post of acting national chairman of the CECPC, citing lack of commitment by Buni to the process that would lead to the convention. Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State later used the prime time on a private television station to justify the sudden change of leadership in the CECPC. But in his letter, Buhari said Buni should be allowed to conduct the convention because the APC risks the possibility and prospect of the invalidation of all its activities and actions by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This, the president said, was besides a multiplicity of court cases pending against the party in different courts across the country. “Furthermore, the party has demonstrated its inability to proceed with the issue of effecting change in the leadership of its caretaker/ extraordinary convention planning committee in a way that is inclusive, legal and respectful of the time limit set and required for giving the INEC sufficient notice of the time and venue for holding its convention. “No doubt, these controversies and uncertainties, as enumerated above, pose a real threat to the party and may lead to a possible nonrecognition of its activities, elections and the probable invalidation of all its other actions by INEC. This may ultimately even lead its implosion and non-existence. “There is, therefore, an urgent need for the party to, as much as possible, avoid all controversies, litigations and all other necessary distractions and quickly get its acts together. “In view of the foregoing, therefore, I would like now to direct as follows: first, the issue of the leadership of the CECPC should immediately return to status quo ante; second, all members of the governors’ forum and their followers should desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to disunity in the ranks of the party, and ultimately jeopardise the transition to the convention; third, the Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC should, accordingly, be allowed to proceed with all necessary preparations to hold the convention as planned, unfailingly on March 26, 2022,” the letter read. Emboldened by President Buhari’s letter, Governor Buni, on Wednesday night, announced the cancellation of the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting earlier fixed for today. The APC national secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, in a statement entitled, ‘Purported APC NEC meeting cancelled,’ said he was acting on the instruction of Governor Buni. The one-paragraph statement read: “As directed by the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning (CECPC) and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, a purported emergency meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) slated for Thursday, March 17, 2022 is hereby cancelled.” The Yobe State governor is expected back in the country today. One of his aides who spoke to Nigerian Tribune in confidence said his principal would return to the country tomorrow (Thursday) from London, where he had travelled to meet President Buhari. “Yes, I can confirm to you that he is coming back tomorrow [today],” he said ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity