Two persons have been arrested by the operatives of the Ogun State Police Command, over the alleged killing of a 25-year-old motorcyclist, Yusuf Buhari, at the Sango-Ota area of Ogun State. The suspects, Hammed Ismail and Osoba Yakubu, were said to have snatched a motorcycle belonging to the deceased and subsequently killed him. They were arrested based on a report lodged by the brother of the deceased, Buhari Salisu, at Sango Divisional Police Headquarters, that Buhari who left home with his motorcycle was found dead at an uncompleted building at Araromi village in the Ilogbo area of the town, while his motorcycle was discovered missing. The DPO of the Sango-Ota division, SP Saleh Dahiru, was reported to have detailed his detectives to the scene. The remains of the late Buhari was recovered and released based on a request to the family for burial according to their religious belief. The DPO in his determination to unravel the mystery deployed his men on the technical and intelligence-based investigation, with collaboration with the local security men which comprises of the So-Safe Corps and Vigilance group which necessitated the arrest of Hammed. His confession to the crime led to the arrest of his accomplices, Osoba, who also confessed to the crime. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police CP Lanre Bankole has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team