Residents  of Ibelefun Amojo community along Owode-Ibeshe Road in Igbogbo-Bayeku Local Council Development Area of Lagos State were surprised at the weekend as the Attorney of the Shosanya and Ajako Families, Messrs Cromwell Professional Services International Limited  led Sheriffs of the Lagos High Court, land surveyors and detachment of mobile police in a Court ordered possession trip of large expanse of land in the area. The land, measuring 244.36 acres and bounded by Nichemtex Industries via Abuja Road, Igbo Agbowa Road and Voice of Nigeria at its boundary with Caritas Events Centre, was said to belong to the families. According to the attorney of the families, Otunba Sola Enitan, the parcel of land which had been in the possession of the families from time immemorial was leased to Clay Industries Ltd sometime in 1970 for 25 years which expired around 1995. “Since the expiration of the tenancy till date, the said land was held over by police elements said to have been installed by the former Head of State and past President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. Other residents along the Owode-Ibeshe Road were also caught up in the land repossession exercise,” Enitan said. He explained that person now in occupation of the large expanse of land measuring 244.360 acres belonging to Shosanya and Ajako families are unknown person. Citing the case instituted by the families and  judgement on suit No: IKD/95521LMW/2020  of  the High Court of Lagos Ikorodu Judicial Division of December 18, 2020,  Enitan said that the enforcement represented the return of the land back to the possession of the family after about 28 years of tenancy mismanagement. But most residents of the community interviewed by Nigerian Tribune   said they were not aware of any court case or judgement. One of the landladies, who identified herself simply as “Ufoma”, a widow, said her husband did not, mentioned there was a court case on the land before his demise two years ago. According to her, her husband bought the land from the Baale, now deceased. She said her family moved to the community over 10 years ago, adding that the information she got was that the land belonged to Obasanjo and the issues had been laid to rest. One Baale , Chief Ayodele Ominiha, who spoke on  phone,  said he wasn’t aware of any court case or judgment until  his people informed him last Thursday that some individuals were sealing industrial, commercial and residential premises in the area. According to him, the entire land belonged to his forefathers, adding that the Federal Government released the land to the family some years back. On next action to take, he said the family’s lawyer would be consulted. Justifying the enforcement,  Enitan cited the ruling on Suit No: IKD/95521LMW/2020  of  the High Court of Lagos Ikorodu Judicial Division of  December 18, 2020  by Justice A, F. Pokanu in a case between  Chief  Waide Jemina Bello Ajako;  Chief Salaudeen Afuwape Ominiha Ajako; Mr Saliu Nello Ajako; Chief Amidu Shittu Oyebo Ajako; Chief Kazzim Okelanfa Fadeyi Shosanya; Chief Yekini Olaide Fdeyi Shosanya; Madam Iyabo Moriamo Fadeyi Shosanya; Mr Femi Oye Demosu Shosanya -(the lawful and accredited  representatives of Shosanya and Ajako Familly)- and persons  Unknown as defendants. The judgement document read “Upon the originating summons brought pursuant to Order 57 Rule 2(2) of the High Court of Lagos State (Civil Procedure) Rules 2019 dated August 7, 2020 but filed on August 13, 2020 coming up before this honorable court. “Upon Reading the Affidavit in support of Oluremi Opadeye, a senior  estate surveyor in the firm of Cromwell Professional Services International Limited, the lawful attorney of the claimants. “Judgment is entered and it is hereby ordered as follows that: The Claimants,and after hearing, Taiwo Olowolemoko of the counsel for the application. Claimants do recover possession of the large expanse of land measuring 244.360  acres of land together with appurtenances situate, lying and being at Ibelefun Amojo Village, with Ibelefun Quarters, along Owode-Ibeshe road, via Ebute, Ikorodu, Lagos State; contained within and marked green on the survey plan with No. PGL/3379/2019/CPC/07/LA and on the composite plan with No. PGL/3379/2019/CPC/06C/LA;  both dated 27/11/2019 forthwith,” the judge ruled. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.