The Nigerian equities market reversed its two-day consecutive decline to close bullish on Wednesday, as buying interest in MTN Nigeria (+0.2%) drove the All-Share Index (ASI) higher by 0.1 per cent to close at 47,364.46 basis points. Specifically, interest in MTNN was the primary driver of the session’s gain as the high cap stock appreciated by 0.24 per cent. Also, gains in FBN Holding, Stanbic and United Bank for Africa complemented the overall growth of the local bourse as their respective share values added 1.29 per cent, 0.87 per cent and 0.59 per cent. Consequently, the Month-to-Date return of the ASI settled at -0.1 per cent, while the Year-to-Date return increased to +10.9 per cent. Thus, Investors at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) earned N12.72 billion as the market capitalisation ended the day at N25.53 trillion. Further analysis according to data from the NGX indicated that, as measured by market breadth, market sentiment was positive on Wednesday as 18 tickers gained relative to 15 losers. On the performance chart, NPF Microfinance Bank and PZ recorded the highest gains of the day having appreciated in stock value by 10.0 per cent and 9.8 per cent, while Royal Exchange and Livestock topped the losers’ list as their share value depreciated by 9.7 per cent apiece. Despite the renewed bullish sentiment, most
of the sub-sector indices moved in different directions, while the NGX Insurance and the NGX Consumer Goods indices rose by 1.24 per cent and 0.19 per cent respectively, the NGX Oil/Gas and the NGX Industrial indices were unchanged. However, the NGX Banking index fell 0.59 per cent. Meanwhile, market activity was mixed as the value of stocks traded rose by 2.43 per cent to 2.54 billion. However, the volume of stock traded fell by 20.42 per cent to 145.83 million. UBA for the second consecutive session, led the volume chart with 14.76 million units traded, while MTN Nigeria led the value chart in deals worth N458.93 million. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity