The Federal Government has expressed concern that Nigeria is not among the leading tomato exporting countries, despite being rated as one of the leading producers of the crop in Africa. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr Mohammad Abubakar who expressed this concern on Thursday at the launch of the HortiNigeria Project in Abuja, attributed this to challenges of low yield resulting from seed type used. Recall that the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Nigeria yesterday, announced that its funded project HortiNigeria would earn about 60,000 smallholder farmers €9.7 million annual income generation. The project which was is implemented International Fertiliser Development Center (IFDC) and its consortium partners East-West seed Knowledge Transfer (EWS-KT), Wageningen University and Research (WUR) and KIT Royal Tropical Institute, covers Kano, Kaduna, Ogun and Oyo states, focusing on tomato, okra, onion, and pepper value chains. According to the Agric Minister, Nigeria’s various ecologies, soil and climatic conditions are suitable for the production of horticultural crops. The climate conditions according to him confer an immense competitive advantage and potential to have a leading role in tomato production and trade. While explaining that HortiNigeria is yet another opportunity to promote activities of the horticultural sub-sector, he said the government is looking forward to catalysing increased productivity and exposure of 60,000 smallholder farmers in the four states. He added that the project would facilitate 200 business to business linkage and 100 business partnerships. The Dutch Ambassador to Nigeria, Harry van Dijk said the horticulture sector in Nigeria offers many opportunities as local market demand for vegetables largely exceeds local production, with an estimated supply gap of 13 million metric tons. He noted that the project will contribute to a more sustainable and inclusive horticulture system in Nigeria. According to him, the sector employs a high number of women and youth and increased horticultural production. It will lead to better availability and affordability of nutritious foods. “The focus is on vegetables for domestic markets and the program has four components which are interconnected. “The first component strives towards increasing productivity and incomes of 60.000 smallholder farmers in Kano and Kaduna: in an environmentally sustainable way. “The second component pilots production systems innovations, in Ogun and Oyo states: supporting greenhouse technologies and offering connections to Lagos markets. “The third component focuses on increasing access to finance throughout vegetable value chains: mobilizing EUR 6 million of private capital for farmers, traders, processors and SMEs, while the fourth component enhances sector coordination and business-to-business linkages: contributing to improvements in federal and state horticultural policies,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.