This March, Showmax will honour 30 women who have made and are making iconic contributions to Nollywood, Nigeria’s movie industry. R gathered that every day for the duration of the month, Showmax will spotlight a different woman who has contributed to the industry’s growth – from fast-rising stars to A-list actresses and producers. Some of these women include Bimbo Ademoye, UzoamakaAniunoh, Genevieve Nnaji, Kate Henshaw, ChineyloveEze, Biodun Stephen and Tope Oshin. Showmax will also shine the light on many of the women behind the scenes, without whom Nollywood will not be able to function. These include Nollywood directors, costumiers, set designers, writers, and makeup artists doing exploits. On why Showmax is spotlighting these women, Head of Content: Showmax Africa, Candice Fangueiro, says, “As a platform created by Africans for Africans to showcase and tell original stories that resonate, it is important to recognise everyone that contributes to telling these stories, and particularly the women who have played a remarkable part in the growth of what is one of the biggest film industries in the world. These women, some of who work behind the scenes, have continued to invest their time and talent towards pushing the African narrative, and this is a cause that is very dear to us at Showmax.” Showmax will also highlight several movies and series with strong female leads, especially strong black women. You can watch one or many of such movies or series on the streaming platform, as well as a host of other great content. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.