The Ogun State government and a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), ASPILOS Foundation, have commenced another five-month free Information Communication and Technology (ICT) training for women, towards digitally empowering them. The training, which was tagged, ‘Become a female tech creator,’ according to the Press Officer, Bureau of Information Technology, Mrs Olayinka Ezema, is ongoing at Ogun TechHub in Abeokuta, where participants would be trained from a zero knowledge of computer to becoming a technology creator, as well as boosting their talents in digital economy. It would be recalled that in 2020, the Ogun State government collaborated with ASPILOS Foundation to put up a female coding programme called ABOCODERS purposely to develop the talents of women in ICT which had produced more than 100 female coders working with government and private firms. The Special Adviser to the governor on ICT, Mr Dayo Abiodun, said the on-going training was the fifth of its kind, where women were given free and thorough knowledge in data science, web-development, and web-design among others, so as to boost their skills technologically. Abiodun said the present administration in the state was determined to create enabling environment for women in terms of developing their skills in ICT, take them from the scratch to point of becoming independent coders, IT solutions developers, so as to get first paid employment, noting that the door is still open for others to join the training. Speaking on behalf of other participants, Mrs Badmus Aishat, appreciated the state government for the free life-changing opportunity, saying the training class was 80 per cent practical which would have been unaffordable out there. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details