Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention, Coalition of All Progressives Congress (APC) North East Youths Vanguard on Sunday endorsed the candidature of Hon. Rinsola Abiola as the APC National Youth leader. Convener of the coalition, Comrade Abdullahi Ibrahim, made the disclosure in a press conference held at the APC State Secretariat in Bauchi on Sunday. According to him, the endorsement is necessary considering her wealth of experience and her outstanding sacrifices to the ruling party. He said that, “As we set to elect new leadership that will paddle the affairs of the All Progressive Congress for the next four years, we are obliged to address the press on the following reason which is germane to the progress of our party.” According to him, “You will all agree with us that the youth remain the backbone of every society, such that its future cannot only be predicted through the deed of the youth but can also be presumed from the acts embarked upon by the youth of that particular time.” He added that in all aspects of electoral processes, the role of the youth cannot be underestimated, the mobilization of voters which is the threshold to every electoral victory are highly carried out by youths saying, “therefore, we can succinctly posit that the position of the youths in democracy is that of a pillar in a building whereby if it seizes to exist, the building cannot stand.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “As we approach the National Convention of the All Progressive Congress, we the APC North-East Youth Vanguard converged here today to affirm our wholesome support for Hon. Rinsola Abiola candidature as APC Youth leader,” he said. He explained that “this is not because we felt we should throw our support behind her, but due to her antecedents in the area of grassroots mobilisation throughout various assignments and positions she held either by the party leadership or in many support groups.” Ibrahim said that, “her vast experience in the area of mobilisation will forever be a selling point for our party in the forthcoming general elections. This should not be taken for granted, we believe she remains the best among all the aspirants currently jostling for this exalted office of APC Youth Leader having considered her background in political participation.” He further stressed that “as a female contestant and considering the roles women play in mobilisation and sensitisation towards sustaining the gains and securing the future of the nation’s democratic institutions. Her endorsement becomes necessary and timely.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team