Suspected terrorists on Monday evening bombed an Abuja-Kaduna train conveying about 970 passengers and successfully immobilised it. According to Daily Nigerian on Monday night, the attack occurred at a point between Katari and Rijana. One of the passengers who confirmed the incident in a telephone call said the attackers have surrounded the train, shooting sporadically. “All the passengers are currently lying on the floor of the train. The bandits are shooting sporadically. We are in serious danger,” said one of the panic-stricken passengers. When Nigerian Tribune put a call through to the Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Engineer Fidet Okhiria, he said the development is yet to be confirmed even though they have heard of it and are putting in effort to confirm it. “We have heard of the attack about 30 minutes ago and are trying to confirm it,” the MD told the Nigerian Tribune exclusively. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Minutes later, the Lagos District Manager of the NRC, Engineer Jerry Oche confirmed the development to the Nigerian Tribune. In a chat with Nigerian Tribune correspondent,  Oche said the attack has been confirmed. “I was with the MD when you called. We just confirmed the attack,” Engineer Oche told the Nigerian Tribune exclusively Senator Shehu Sanni also confirmed the attack via his official Twitter handle. “Villagers along Abuja-Kaduna road called to confirm hearing multiple gunshots and attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train by terrorists  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details