The House of Representatives has expressed grave concern over the financial implication of the proposed merger of Governing Boards of various paramilitary agencies as initiated in the Executive bill transmitted for legislative consideration penultimate week. The Majority House Leader, Hon Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, expressed the concern in Abuja, during an interactive session with the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. The Majority Leader who was flanked by chairmen of relevant House Committees stressed the need for rationale behind ongoing move by the Federal Government to bring all major paramilitary agencies in the country under one Governing Board. Hon Ado-Doguwa explained that it was “necessary for them to seek the explanation on some provisions of the proposed amendment in particular why the Ministry wants all these large entities put under one board. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “And another provision in the bill is seeking the appointment of four commissioners for the board which in our view could be a financial burden on governments purse.” In his early remarks, the Minister observed that the proposed amendment of the Nigeria Immigration and Prisons Board Act is to enable the inclusion of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Federal Fire Service. This, he added is to: “align the functions and structure of the organisations. “This meeting is in respect of an executive bill seeking amendment to the Nigeria Immigration and Prisons Governing Board, to bring the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and the Federal Fire Service under the purview of the Board to conform with related laws and practices,” he said. The Bill also covers matters of recruitment, promotion, remunerations, discipline and regurgitations respectively. The lawmakers, however, assured the Minister that the House leadership would be briefed accordingly, with a view to making informed decision on the report of the Committee. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Reps parley Aregbesola over proposed bill on merger of paramilitary boards Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Reps parley Aregbesola over proposed bill on merger of paramilitary boards ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more