The Vice-Chancellor, Federal University Dutse (FUD) in Jigawa, Professor Abdulkarim Sabo Muhammad, said the institute had equipped the university‘s library with over 506,000 books, journals and e-resources in 2021. The Vice-Chancellor (VC) who made the disclosure while speaking to newsmen in Dutse, said the books, journals and e-resources cost the university over N350 million. Professor Abdulkarim Sabo Muhammad explained that “this includes the ones purchased through TETFUND and other interventions. “In the last one year, we’ve purchased over 5000 books, especially on pre-clinical, over 500,000 e-resources and 1,000 journals in different fields.” He added that “We’ve also purchased a large number of medical journals and have equally received donations of books and other educational materials from donor organisations. “We’ve also installed 100 new computers in the library so that students can access electronic information resources in form of e-books and e-journals offline. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The university has also acquired new servers for the eight faculties and the school of postgraduate studies so that they can access e-resources both online and offline,” he said. The VC stated further that the university has renovated and expanded facilities in both male and female hostels, including the construction of new 100-bed capacity female hostel, which reached ninety per cent completion. “It is my hope that the university will take over the new hostel in two months’ time,” the VC added. According to him, the university is now fully fenced with the completion of perimeter fencing which commenced last year. Sabo also disclosed that the institution also got intervention for the installation of 96 modern solar-powered street lights, which gave the campus good illumination at night. “These projects were given to the university by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing with the support of the immediate-past Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Alhaji Babangida Husseini,” Sabo said. He further hinted that the management of the university has concluded plans to construct new Senate Building for the institution. The VC pointed out the present building is inadequate as the university’s population has grown. “I want to seize this opportunity to announce the plan by the management to construct a new senate building for the university. “The current one is inadequate as the university has grown in leaps and bounds in the last 11 years. “The Senate chamber is so small that we now use the twin theatre of the Faculty of Basic Sciences to conduct senate meetings,” the VC said. According to him, when completed, the new senate building would also provide comfortable office accommodation for Council Members, who at present don’t have offices in the university. “This will also provide a befitting office for principal officers of the university,” he added. Sabo added that the university has also proposed the construction of another 100-bed space students hostel and 500 space capacity lecture theatre. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FUD equipped library with 506,000 books, journals in 2021 ― VC ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity