Like a reoccurring decimal, popular Karmo market in the suburban area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja has again been gutted by fire, in the wee hours of Thursday. The fire incident is said to have started in a shop that sold drinks before engulfing other stalls, where property worth millions of naira was lost in the inferno which was said to have started around 12.20 am. The market traders’ leader, Murtala Ibrahim, said “300 makeshift shops were destroyed by the fire before it was brought under control around 2 am by combined efforts of the firefighters from the government’s agencies and companies. “The affected areas included provisions, building materials, electronics, stationery, cosmetics shops, among others. “Many traders who rushed to the scene on getting the information were restricted by the police and members of vigilante groups from jumping into the burning shops in an attempt to salvage some items,” Ibrahim added. According to an eyewitness, the FCT fire service officials reportedly responded in good time and the fire was put out in under two hours, while the traders who got wind of the fire incident rushed to the market but were stopped from going into their shops by security operatives for safety reasons. Recall that Tribune Online reported almost five years ago and on July 7, 2021, how fire gutted this Karmo market bedevilled by overcrowdedness and lack of access roads. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Again, fire guts popular Karmo market in Abuja ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details