In other to control traffic, both human and vehicular, as well provide security of lives and property in Abuja City Center, during the All Progressive Congress (APC) National Convention scheduled to hold from 25th to 27th March 2022 at the Eagle Square Abuja. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has deployed more personnel to be on hand. A statement made available to pressmen in Abuja via the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, stated that, “The convention is usually greeted with a heavy influx of the Politicos from every part of the country and will be graced by the attendance of The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari(GCFR), The Vice president, and other notable party stakeholders. “In the light of the above, and in other to ensure maximum safety as well as the continuation of economic activities which largely depends on road traffic, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command after critically and considerably drafting an operational order to maximize the deployment of human and material resources for the success of the convention, have deemed it fit intimate members of the public about a few traffic diversions as follows; 1. Good luck Ebele Jonathan By the court of appeal
2. Behind Court of Appeal
3. Ecowas by Women Affairs
4. Finance junction
5. Behind Foreign Affairs
6. Kur Mohammed by National Mosque
7. Benue Plaza
8. Nitel junction
9. Phase 3
10. NNPC Tower
11. Ceddi Plaza bridge
12. Gana by Transcorp
13. DSS Headquarters
14. Phase 1
15. NASS Junction
16. Bullet
17. Bayelsa House.” The statement read. According to the statement, the FCT Commissioner of Police CP Babaji Sunday PSC has expressed confidence in the revamped security architecture in the FCT, and urged members of the public to cooperate with the Police and consider the use of alternative routes. He also noted that the arrangement was emplaced for security optimization and ease of transportation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… FCT Police deploy personnel  FCT Police deploy personnel Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… FCT Police deploy personnel  FCT Police deploy personnel ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details