TeamApt, one of Nigeria’s leading Fintechs providing a financial platform for businesses is now accepting applications for its 2022 ‘Women in Tech’ internship programme tagged ‘The Apt 5’. This year, it is leveraging the Ingressive for Good community to ensure access to the opportunity for as many women as possible. With more than 150,000 businesses and 16 million end users in Nigeria using TeamApt’s products Moniepoint and Monnify every month, the company is committed to ensuring access and growth for the underserved. This ‘Women in Tech’ paid internship programme is in alignment with its mission to provide financial happiness for all by offering the tools they need to succeed. In line with their mission to increase the earning power of African youths through tech training and the power of work, Ingressive for Good has built a community of over 100,000 individuals, training 80,000 and driving women-focused tech training for African youths. Their strong foundations in the African tech ecosystem are what made the partnership for this internship programme possible. Technology is at the centre of business and everyday life and to build and maintain these applications, a myriad of talents are needed. As everyone is reminded to break the bias this Women’s Day, opportunities like these are important for the industry and economy at large. “We are committed to building the tech talent pipeline across Africa and have partnered with a number of universities to facilitate this, but it’s not lost on us that the tech industry is still vastly male-dominated. This programme ensures that more women have access to the kind of opportunities that can fast-track their careers in technology. Some interns from the last cohort are already full-time engineers with the organisation now and that’s the exact pace of growth this enables.” said Edidiong Uwemakpan, Director of Brand and Corporate Communications at TeamApt. “As of 2019, according to UNDP, women only occupied 28 per cent of tech roles in Sub Saharan Africa. Today, that number has increased to 30-31 per cent because of the effort of tech companies like TeamApt placing people. Training and mentorship is great but we need more tech companies to boldly help women kickstart their tech careers by giving them a chance to build the experience based on their learning. Beyond panels, and words, bold and direct action like this one, makes a lot of difference. We have had women’s lives change forever just because they landed one internship. A woman in our community now earns 10 times what she used to earn last year because of a tech internship that skyrocketed her tech career, landing her a full-time role. So, if you know a woman who will benefit from this, tell her about it. We are indeed proud to be a catalyst for such a great initiative.” Blessing Abeng, co-founder of Ingressive for Good remarked. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…TeamApt announces second  TeamApt announces second Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…TeamApt announces second  TeamApt announces second ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more