MTN Nigeria has secured exclusive global rights to stream ‘Davido live’ at the O2 to its customers on Saturday, March 5, 2022. Through its partnership with the subscription-based music store and streaming service platform, uduX, MTN will be in the front row as the company with its pulse on technology and entertainment. Following a brief hiatus, Davido has been gearing up to give his UK fans the ultimate Afrobeats experience. The concert comes as part of an elaborate prelude to the megastar’s upcoming album ‘We Rise By Lifting Others’ – a celebration of a decade-long run in the music industry, from the early days of ‘Dami Duro’ in Lagos to the recent release of ‘Champion Sound’ globally. With MTN facilitating Davido’s live-in-concert experience to his global audience through UduX, fans can look forward to a seamless and immersive event. MTN Nigeria customers can tune into the action on Saturday, March 5, 2022, by subscribing to their favourite streaming data bundles, and logging on to wrblo2.udux.com to join the fun. Commenting on the partnership, the Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria, Adia Sowho, said, “We are proud of this partnership with UduX and Davido, two stellar Nigerian brands that have become global ambassadors promoting Nigerian culture and music. In delivering this unparalleled experience to our customers across the country, we reiterate MTN Nigeria’s commitment to continue to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world.” MTN had previously delivered a successful all-inclusive live experience in November 2021 to its customers in Nigeria. The experience featured Grammy Award-winning Nigerian artiste, Ayodeji ‘Wizkid’ Balogun at the O2, sharing his monster hit album ‘Made in Lagos’, with the world. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Davido’s O2 concert: MTN subscribers to get exclusive free access Davido’s O2 concert: MTN subscribers to get exclusive free access ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.