Nigerian award-winning musician and actor, Folarin ‘Falz’ Falana is back with a brand new single, ‘Ice Cream’ featuring rave of the moment and Nigerian Singer BNXN, formerly known as Buju. Produced by Willis, the artiste said ‘Ice Cream’ is the definition of erotic art with a charming and memorable vibe that will get fans in the right mood any day. Delivering unique hooks has been synonymous with Buju for over a year, and he comes through yet again on the hook for the song, while Falz’s rap blends in to take listeners on a journey of different moods, with some wild thoughts! Falz described how delighted he was to work with Buju for the first time. ‘I have always been a big fan of Buju, and I love his sound. I am very excited about this collaboration with him because it’s a great blend of our different sounds. A whole new flavour of sweetness for your pleasure. I hope you’re ready to scream for ‘Ice Cream’. Folarin’ Falz Falana has established himself as one of Nigeria’s top entertainers through his incredible work as a singer, rapper and actor accompanied by his four award-winning solo albums. He has won awards and accolades, some of which include BET Award (2016 Best New International Act), Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards (2016 Best Actor in a Comedy) ,The Headies (2019 Best Rap Single), Headies 2019 (Album of the Year), The Headies 2020 (Best Rap Single). For BNXN, his rise to the top has been astronomical after stamping his footprint in the Nigerian music scene, with his array of hit singles, duets and his debut extended playlist. He adds his infectious energy to ‘Ice Cream’. His credentials of hit songs are evident, having contributed to several smash hits over the last two years, including “Feeling” by Poe and “Mood” by Wizkid. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Falz teams up with BNXN in new single ‘Ice Cream ‘Falz teams up with BNXN in new single ‘Ice Cream’ Falz teams up with BNXN in new single ‘Ice Cream’ Falz teams up with BNXN in new single ‘Ice Cream’ ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team