Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) has said that competence should be the key quality Nigerians should look out for before they choose a new president. CBCN President, Archbishop Augustine Akubueze, who stated this at the opening ceremony of the first plenary of the conference in 2022 held in Abuja on Sunday, admonished Nigerians to resist the temptation of falling into a divisive political campaign ahead of next year’s general elections. “We cannot run away from the fact that very often a people get the kind of government they deserve. Yes, this is true. The numbers of Nigerians who vote are very few. Those who do not vote, have already voted by allowing a few to determine the future of the majority. “The argument that INEC or other agents may not make our votes count is no longer acceptable. We must exercise our right to vote and then speak to protect our vote. “We call on all Nigerians to get their Permanent Voters’ Card and get ready to vote according to their personal conviction of who is capable to lead Nigeria or the State to a better life. “Vote for those who can ensure the security of life and property. Vote for those who have shown that they have the capacity to unite us as a people. Vote for people who possess the capacity to make Nigeria an industrial hub for Africa. Vote for people who can make Nigeria a land of opportunity for all. “Vote for people who can make our dreams come to life. Nigerians must resist the temptation of falling into a divisive political campaign,” he said. The clergy further said that the state of the country is such that the bishops have realised that in spite of the people’s failures, particularly the country’s leadership, God was still at work in the land. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Akabueze, therefore, urged Nigerians to seek the unity of the nation which, according to him, must precede sustainable peace. “We are also united in our common search for a nation that cares for everyone. We are united in our common dream for a Nigeria that provides opportunities for everyone. “We are united in praying and working for a Nigeria where Government at all levels are accountable to the people who gave them power. We are united in our yearning and desire for a Nigeria with strong institutions. “We are all united in looking forward to a Nigeria that will be audacious enough to ensure that our constitution reflects our common aspiration to live in unity, peace and justice. We are united in seeking a constitution that will provide for the needs of every Nigeria,” he said. The Bishop also noted that 2023 presents Nigerians a fresh opportunity to fix what they got wrong in the past, especially in their participation in the political life of the nation. “We have failed God as individuals who allow corruption to deprive us of living the good life God has given to us. We have failed God by allowing insecurity and criminality to thrive,” he added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.