Police in Anambra State have said that the Command has rescued a lady alleged to have caused the death of her late husband in Aguleri community, in Anambra East Local Government Area of the state. According to the Police, the woman was seen in a trending video being offered inhuman treatment. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, who revealed the information in a statement, in Awka, on Sunday, said one suspect has been arrested in connection to the act. And that the Command is studying the video aimed at identifying other suspects and bring them to book. The statement read; The Anambra State Police Operatives have today at about 12:07pm rescued a female victim from an angry mob in Aguleri. The rescue, was as a result of a report seen trending video of where a lady was publicly molested and assaulted on an alleged incident causing the death of her late husband. The Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, while describing the act as barbaric, states that one suspect is already in custody and ordered immediate study of the video with the aim to identify the suspects, arrest and bring them to book. Further information reveals that the deceased had already been buried before the video started trending. The victim was rescued and she is currently receiving medical care in the hospital. But a source at the scene of the incident via the video, alleged that the woman killed her husband with excessive sexual intercourse and was preparing to bury him. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more