IN its renewed effort in providing inspiring and lavishly built maisonette housing schemes in the country, the Address Homes Limited, has added two new housing brand schemes into the Nigerian property market. Christened ‘Luxuria’ and ‘Dan & Dan’ by the real estate developer, the two brands, on completion, are expected to deliver cozy homes that combine high class contemporary design with high-level finishes within Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria. The construction of the two deluxe contemporary homes, which commenced in 2021, is expected to be completed in 2023. Located on Alexander Road, close to the Lekki-Ikoyi Bridge, with easy access to the mainland through the Third Mainland Bridge, Luxuria, a 13-floor imposing masterpiece, comprises four bedroom apartments,four bedroom maisonettes, and five bedroom penthouses. Other features of the Luxuria include ample parking spaces, sitting areas, a fully fitted modern (wet & dry) kitchen, a dining room, long views through spaces, one maid’s room, an innovative lighting system, balcony, and a smart home system. For Dan & Dan project on Banana Island Road, Ikoyi, the company said it comprised 27 units of fully serviced luxury homes, which includes three penthouses, 12 maisonette and 12 terrace houses. Speaking on the two new projects, the Chairman/ Founder, The Address Homes, Dr. Bisi Onasanya said “The mission of the company is to deliver unique services with modern functional homes to make our clients live comfortably in luxury. “In creating these luxury homes, we took into consideration the need for space optimisation, comfort, security, child-friendly environment, and quality of materials. At The Address Homes, we build homes with clients at the core and heart of our processes.” To become a proud owner of one of these breathtaking luxury homes, the company is offering the units at an initial 30 per cent deposit. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.