Nineteen-year-old writer and winner of the Chima Ugokwe Prize for Essay, Isaiah Adepoju, has lamented why Nigerians are more interested in winning literary prizes like the Nobel Prize in Literature, the Nigeria Prize in Literature, etc., than in winning science and technology prizes. The English student of the Obafemi Awolowo University made this known while reacting to the call for submission for the 2022 Nigeria Prize for Science, with the theme: ‘Innovation in sustainable food security.’ Nigeria Prize for Science is the country’s highest scientific award (worth USD100,000 in award money), sponsored by Nigeria liquefied Gas (NLG) Limited which, had no winner for its 2020/2021 submissions. “Every year, it seems we only want to win the Nobel Prize for Literature, and not for Chemistry, for Physics,” Adepoju said. He argued that the sciences are lagging in Nigeria, and that gifted scientists in the country are either planning to collect green cards abroad or already have them and are breaking records there. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He expressed worry about why technology is not taught to typical Nigerian children, and also why the children and their parents prefer Nollywood to Star Wars movies, witty films, tech films, hundreds of other thoughtful films capable of repositioning their thoughts. “So we don’t grow up thinking technology, and the sciences aren’t our thing,” he lamented. Adepoju admonished Nigerian parents to discourage their children from some Nollywood or romantic comedies, except selected films about technology, entrepreneurship, documentaries about Africa, etc. He also admonished parents to go the extra mile by buying their children fiction books, graphic novels, illustrative books on discoveries, and to sacrifice much by showing them why it is important. “Technology should be our culture too, not stories that fetishise poverty, not the N-word, and certainly not only about unfruitful things as comedy skits,” Adepoju said. “The latter, I believe, in the Nigerian case, is derogatory.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more