Niger State Governor and acting national Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abubakar Sani Bello, appears to have beaten a tactical retreat in his cold war with the Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, and national secretary of the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. The latter returned to the APC national secretariat on Tuesday. Checks revealed that Niger State Governor had last week told newsmen that he was not aware that his Yobe state counterpart wrote a formal letter ceding the administration of the party national secretariat to him in acting capacity.
Governor Bello also told newsmen last week that Senator Akpanudoedehe had no role to play under his administration.
Investigation revealed that no function was assigned to the duo of Governor Buni and Senator Akpanudoedehe in the list of Convention Committees released by the Niger State Governor. Tribune Online checks revealed that reason prevailed following the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari who is presently in the United Kingdom. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Addressing journalists on Tuesday, Senator Akpanudoedehe said Governor Buni remained the chairman of the party and would soon return to the APC national secretariat to continue with the processes that would lead to the convention. The APC national secretariat thanked the Independent National Electoral Commission for its rebuff of Governor Abubakar Bello letter notifying the electoral body of the plan to conduct NEC meeting in the absence of Governor Buni. “We are grateful to INEC for her firm guidance in the entire circumstances,” Akpanudoedehe said.
Senator Akpanudoedehe also said the APC CECPC was making efforts to vacate a Court injunction restraining it from proceeding with its scheduled March convention. His statement read in part: “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the Chairmanship of His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, makes this Press Release to clarify the events of last week and reassure the membership and stakeholders of the Party, as well as the Nigerian people in general, that the Governing Party is crisis-free, strong and remains united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance which she promised them. “The CECPC, therefore, informs the Press and the General Public as follows: ‘That the CECPC was appointed, and has always done her best, to steer the affairs of the APC in line with the mandate invested in her at inauguration by the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress. “That on the 28th day of February 2022 the CECPC Chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the Timetable for the 2023 General Elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanizing some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the Committee/Party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from Office or otherwise replaced. “That the CECPC is intact and functional as originally constituted. “That delivering a seamlessly successful National Convention for the APC on March 26, 2022, is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders. “We are grateful to INEC for her firm guidance in the entire circumstances. “Meanwhile, the party has engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the planned APC National Convention. We hereby call on the Judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in our bid to vacate the purported Court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free National Convention deserving of our great party, APC. ‘The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) hereby restates absolute loyalty to the APC, thanks to the National Organs and leadership of our Party led by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR and reassures our members and citizens that the Party is stronger than ever before and poised to extend her winning streak since 2015 into 2023 and beyond.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity