A renowned Engineer, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has challenged world leaders on the urgent need to tackle climatic and environmental degradation ravaging humanity and society. Iwuanyanwu while addressing leaders and members of the Global Coalition for Sustainable Environment on Climate Change Mitigation in Owerri Friday said the situation calls for urgent and immediate intervention of world leaders and their engineers to save mankind from extinction. He maintained that climate change and environmental degradation has posed a serious threat to human, industrial and socio-economic development adding that all professionals in these areas must come together to find a lasting solution to it. Eng. Iwuanyanwu called for a global summit to discuss firmly the best way to proffer immediate solutions to the serious challenges posed by climatic change and environmental degradation. In a communiqué, issued by the group, they observed that climatic changes have impacted negatively on the global environment blaming it to excessive flooding, severe drought in some regions, land erosion and other environmental catastrophe. The group however resolved to work with the United Nations Environment Programme, European Union, Africa Climate Change Fund, the Federal Government of Nigeria, governments of other foreign nations, multinational corporations, the private sectors and other development partners with a view to finding solutions to mitigate the negative effect of climate changes on humanity. They assured for the establishment of her corporation head office at Nigeria’s federal capital, Abuja with branches in the United States, United Kingdom, Europe, Australia, Canada, and other African countries for collaboration adding that contacts have been established with most of these nations and other groups with similar interests they equally assured to assemble Engineers, Scientists, and other professionals with the commitment and passion to create awareness on the diverse negative influences on the environment for the benefit and future generations. When this is done according to the group it will not only reduce the activities that negatively impact the three dimensions of the environment namely air, water and land but will create solutions and promote remedial measures that will protect, improve and preserve the quality of the environment leading to enhanced health and well being of living organisms. The group said that the measures will promote the best sanitation and general public health thereby preventing widespread transmission of diseases. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Iwuanyanwu challenges world leaders  Iwuanyanwu challenges world leaders Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Iwuanyanwu challenges world leaders  Iwuanyanwu challenges world leaders ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details