In its effort to contribute to the development of host communities BUA Cement, one of Africa’s largest cement companies has donated 3 units of 500KVA transformers to boost access to electricity in SARDA, Kalambaina and specialist hospital, in Wamakko local government community of Sokoto state. The company also commissioned 2 power solar Boreholes in Gidan Gamba as well as Giremshi of Wamakko local government to cushion the effects of water scarcity in the area. Speaking at the event the Managing Director/ Chief Executives Officer of the company Engr Yusuf Haliru Binji said BUA cement corporate social responsibility is a critical part of the BUA cement and as a result, the company is committed to the development of host communities where ever it operates. Binji, who was represented by Head Administration and Corporate services Sada Suleiman, said the 3 units of 500KVA transformers will ease the burden of access to electricity currently being experienced in the communities. On the power solar boreholes, Binji said the company is committed to the provision of potable water to its host communities to prevent outbreaks of water-borne diseases. He noted that the company has also given scholarships, instructional materials worth millions of naira to indigent students. BUA Cement PLC is Nigeria’s second-largest cement company and the largest producer in its Northwest, South-South and South-East regions with a combined installed capacity of 5metric tonnes per annum and with a plan underway to increase the existing capacity to 17million MTPA next year. With its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, BUA cement operates strategically from Kalambaina, Sokoto State, and Okpella, Edo State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity