Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has, on Monday, assured that the safe return of Nigerians displaced by the insurgency in the North-East from Cameroon, Niger and Chad will be treated as an emergency assignment. He made the declaration while presiding over the first meeting of the Presidential Committee on the Repatriation, Returns and Resettlement of Displaced Persons in the North-East, which was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari on February 2, 2022. The vice president is the chairman governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State is vice-chairman. Speaking on the task ahead of the committee, Osinbajo urged members to carry out the assignment with every sense of urgency, noting that the President wanted a committee with wide representation in order to be inclusive, and to be able to deliver, taking to account all the issues. He urged that the committee deals “with this task as an emergency. We simply don’t have the time to get into too much bureaucracy so that we are able to deliver on all of the issues.” Osinbajo noted that while the committee will work with existing frameworks in the management of the issues, ongoing efforts to facilitate the return of displaced persons to their communities must continue unhindered. He said: “We should immediately do whatever it takes to commence the process of repatriating our people back home. Already there are several initiatives. We need to deal with all of that working as quickly as possible to achieve the terms of reference and of course, ensure that all other initiatives continue to run in the way that they are designed to run.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The vice president then assured that governments at both federal and state levels will work in conjunction with other stakeholders to ensure a hitch-free repatriation exercise, noting that “there is no reason why we cannot return our citizens to their homes.” He directed the secretariat to commence work on constituting three technical working groups on the work plan, repatriation exercise and rehabilitation of repentant Boko Haram combatants. Apart from the vice president and Zulum, other attendees in the meeting were Gombe State governor, Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya; the deputy governor of Yobe State, Alhaji Idi Gubana; and Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, members of the Federal Executive Council, among others. Other members of the committee present in meeting included the Ministers of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq; Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) and National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd). Others included the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor; Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba; Director-General, State Security Service, Yusuf Bichi; Chief of Defence Intelligence Agency, Maj. Gen. Samuel Adebayo; and the representative of the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai Abubakar. The representatives of the North-East Development Commission and the National Commission for Refugees, Migration & Internally Displaced Persons were also in attendance. A statement issued by the vice president’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, said the committee will meet later to assess progress. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs We’ll expedite action on displaced persons repatriation ― Osinbajo Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa We’ll expedite action on displaced persons repatriation ― Osinbajo ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity