The police in Lagos State have arrested a police inspector, who was seen in a viral video on the internet, harassing a motorist over a tinted glass permit. The new image maker in charge of the state police command, Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed the arrest in a statement, signed by him and made available to the Tribune Online on Friday. Hundeyin, a Superintendent of Police said “The Lagos State Police Command wishes to inform the general public that Inspector Dele Reuben, the officer captured on video harassing a motorist for the now-suspended tinted glasses permit, has been apprehended and is currently undergoing disciplinary procedures at the State Headquarters, Ikeja.” He added that “His arrest came on the heels of the directive of the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, psc that the errant officer is identified, arrested and decisively dealt with.” “It is pertinent to reiterate that issuance of tinted glasses permit remains suspended by the Force Management to enable an upgrade of the tinted glasses permits portal. In effect, while all existing tinted glasses permit to remain valid, the issuance of new permits is yet to resume.” The new police image maker also stated that “CP Alabi has further reiterated to his officer and men his zero tolerance for harassment, extortion and abuse of rights of citizens.” “He equally assured the general public that the Lagos State Police Command under his watch will continually strengthen its internal disciplinary mechanisms.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police Inspector arrested  Police Inspector arrested Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police Inspector arrested  Police Inspector arrested ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details