The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has disowned a 2023 general election timetable in circulation purporting it to have scheduled its presidential for April 30. According to online reports citing a document signed by Umar Bature, the national organising secretary of the party, even though it had picked the day, the timetable was yet to be finalised But the PDP has rejected the claim as fake, stating emphatically that it has not released any timetable for the exercise. According to a statement issued by Hon Debo Ologunagba on Sunday, the release of the timetable was without the consent of the party and the handiwork of those it referred to as mischievous elements intent on creating confusion in the party. The statement reads: “The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been drawn to a fake election timetable being circulated in the social media, purported to have been signed and released by the National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Hon Umar M. Bature, as the Schedule of Activities and Timetable of the PDP for the 2023 general elections. “The PDP states in clear terms that it is has not released any timetable or any schedule of activities whatsoever for the 2022/2023 electioneering year and no such document was signed and released by the National Organising Secretary. “For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP is a Party of Due Process and will release a Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2022/2023 electioneering year after extensive consultation and approval by critical and statutory organs of the Party at appropriate levels. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Clearly, the said Timetable and Schedule of Activities being circulated in the social media is the handiwork of mischievous elements who seek to create confusion, mislead the public and distract our Party at this critical point in time. “The PDP, therefore, calls on all members of our Party and the general public to discountenance the said Timetable and Schedule of Activities as it did not emanate from the PDP. “At the appropriate time, the official Timetable and Schedule of Activities of the PDP, when approved will be formally announced and published through the Official Communication Channels of our Party and not in the social media. “The PDP further calls on all members and Nigerians, in general, to remain focused and not allow themselves to be distracted in our determined mission to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from the misrule of the All Progressives Congress (APC).” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 2023: We are yet to release election timetable ― PDP ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.