Ahead of 2023 General election, a presidential aspirant under the platform of the All Progressive Congress Party (APC) and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, have promised to transform Nigeria more than the way he transformed his state as a governor if elected as the president. According to him, his achievements in Ebonyi is a prove and testimony that Nigeria will be great under his watch. Umahi disclosed this on Sunday in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr  Francis Nwaze while congratulating the new executives of his party led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu who was elected as the consensus National Chairman after six other candidates withdrew from the contest. His words “What I have done in Ebonyi State will be the microcosm of the macrocosm of what Nigerians should expect if God puts me on as the next President of Nigeria. “If you come to Ebonyi State, you will see the infrastructure, you will see the unity, you will see the future of Nigeria, it is coming from that rising sun of Ebonyi State.” He, however, commended the President and the Party’s Convention Extraordinary planning Committee for the maturity shown which ensured that all differences were sorted out amicably. “That is the spirit of unity in APC, APC will always resolve their problems amicably, that is why we are one united big family of APC in Nigeria.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details