In another twist to the crisis to the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi was last Friday inaugurated as Chairman of the Oyo APC. In this interview, WALE AKINSELURE speaks with Gbadamosi on what informed the inauguration after Isaac Omodewu had earlier been inaugurated as the Oyo APC chairman. Last Friday, you were at the Trans Amusement Park, Ibadan, where new executives of the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by you were inaugurated. Why that action, considering that another executive council led by Isaac Omodewu had been inaugurated some weeks ago? You should be aware of what is going on in the APC in Oyo State. That executive council that was inaugurated the other time was illegal. The matter is in court. Consensus was upheld in our party and that position was not zoned to Itesiwaju from where that man came. We went to Otu, his home town; we held meetings. It is clear to everybody, even to the opposition; they know the correct thing.  They have used the “jagba” but we cannot continue to look at them. We are forming a parallel executive then the national body will come and resolve the issue. We cannot allow them to do that. In progressive politics, you don’t do that. There is a process in doing things. You can not build something on nothing and expect the process to stand. You don’t have base, how do you fly? We have tolerated them for long that is why people said I must be sworn in. You should know how the list of delegates was mutilated. The party hierarchy has put up new executives at the centre and they will come and see what is happening here. All states that there were crises were not allowed to vote at the convention. There is crisis in Oyo. Those people cannot fly and that is why another swearing-in happened. We now have parallel executives in Oyo.  The then Mai Mala Buni leadership of the party inaugurated Isaac Omodewu as Oyo APC chairman in Abuja. Who inaugurated your own executives? The party membership did. A lawyer conducted the swearing-in for me. Buni had said that that congress held then was unrecognised; he did not approve it and he apologised. The matter is in court but we are adopting both the legal and political means. This is to tell you that we are very serious because we won’t allow it.  Are you the one declaring the inauguration of the Omodewu-led executive illegal? It was illegal. How can you build something on nothing? How do you build a house with no foundation?  The Omodewu-led executive council was inaugurated several weeks ago. Why is your own action just coming? We are interested in peace. We had hoped that reason will prevail. I believe you are conversant with what happened at the national level with regards to how Buni was on his way out and how he came back in. But, I believe the present executive will see to what happened here. It was very illegal and unacceptable.  But, it was the Omodewu-led executive council that mobilised delegates to the convention and was also invited to the platform as Oyo APC chairman. Which delegates? I said delegates that emanated from states with crisis were not allowed to cast any vote. It was consensus. You (journalists) have a role to save this country. Our generation should not suffer. We should believe in what is transparent and honest. Is what happened in order? The majority of people in the Oyo APC know that something is very wrong. We want to stand and fight all these sort of things. I don’t know whether Omodewu was there or not. I don’t have any quarrel with Omodewu. We will meet in court. We have filed our papers. Before we filed our papers, we remained silent hoping for some redress. Those who did that shabby thing have gone away with ignominy. Look at the Secretary of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and those who perpetrated all these atrocities. You (journalists) should bring up such issues so that people will desist from such things.  If you were in Abuja for the convention, in what capacity were you there? I was the supervisor for Bayelsa State. I gathered volunteers who handled Bayelsa. They gave me Bayelsa to accredit. I handled the accreditation for Bayelsa State. Only 38 people were accredited out of the list they brought.  So, you have formed parallel excos such that we have two Chairmen of Oyo APC. All I know is that I am a Chairman for the APC in Oyo State. If Omodewu wants to rival this, no problem.  Who are those party members you are chairman over? So many gubernatorial aspirants have said Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi is their chairman. Do your research, I have the majority of party members in Oyo State. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details