AN Associate Professor in the Department of Agricultural, Food and Resource Economics at Michighan State University, Saweda Liverpool-Tasie, has won a $4m grant from the Bill & Melinda Foundation to carry out research on various agricultural value chain. The five-year grant will fund collaborative research on micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigerian and Tanzanian agrifood value chains. Liverpool-Tasie will lead the research team in studying several specific value chains—such as fish or tomatoes in depth. Speaking shortly after the grant was awarded, Liverpool-Tasie, said:”I am really excited about the grant. It enables us to go further in our work on understanding how the midstream of food supply chains in Africa is contributing to the rapid transformation of food systems on the continent and the implications for farmers upstream as well as consumers downstream. In this project, we will be paying particular attention to how MSMEs along food supply chains can be supported to increase the availability of affordable, safe, and nutritious foods.” Co-Director of the Food Security Group, Dave Tschirley, said: “I can’t think of anyone better to be leading this cutting-edge research. Saweda has an ironclad commitment to top quality rigor in her research, to a focus on real policy relevance, and to doing her research and outreach jointly with local partners in a way that helps them build their own capacity. We’re delighted that the Gates Foundation has recognized her world class talent and commitment to doing things the right way.” Gender will be an ongoing focus throughout the research on MSMEs in agrifood value chains, examining patterns in business systems, differing challenges for men and women, and what potential interventions may need to be customised to be inclusive for both genders. Dr. Liverpool-Tasie was recently appointed to the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development (BIFAD) by President Biden. Her work focuses on reducing poverty and increasing access to nutritious food through improving smallholder productivity. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details