Ahead of the All Progressive Congress (APC) gubernatorial primary in Plateau State, the Permeant Secretary, Special Duties and Inter-government Affairs, Plateau State, Mr Sunday Biggs has declared intention to contest for the 2023 governorship election in Plateau State. Biggs who declared his intention at his ward in Mangu local government area of the state on Wednesday said the state comes 2023 needs a dynamic person with a good track of record and vision to move the state forward. He pointed out that he was not rooky when it comes to the affairs of the state adding that of all the aspirants scheming to rule Plateau in 2023 he was the only governorship aspirant that had worked closely with three Governors and technocrats that has a great influence on developmental policies. His words:” I am not a novice when it’s comes Plateau issues and governance, mental capacity and intellectual ability with the requisite experience to lead the state to a better destination. I worked with former Governor Joshua Dariye, Jonah David Jang and Governor Simon Lalong. “I have been privileged to work with technocrats and public officers. I make bold to say I have learned a lot from our leaders, past and present. I have tapped from their wisdom, expertise and knowledge and am equipped with experience to offer myself as the next Chief Servant leader of Plateau State. “My work has made me interact with captains of industry, top technocrats, diplomats and a cross-section of top political leaders of this country. This has positioned me with the understanding and knowledge of issues and dynamics of developmental governance as well as social, economic and infrastructural re-engineering. “It is based on this that my campaign mantra is anchored on: “TheBiggThingsComing” which speaks to the common yearnings and aspirations of most of our citizens in Plateau State.” He explained that his campaign would be anchored on Peace and enhanced security, Agricultural development, Solid Minerals Development and Mining and Social Services and Critical infrastructure. “I am very mindful of the place of women, children and people living with Disabilities. I did not mention them separately because I hold the view of our equality; the task now is to secure the ticket of our great party, the APC.” Biggs said if, given the Mandate, he will present to the great people of Plateau State all-inclusive governance and a level playing ground where ethnicity and religion would not be used against any individual. The State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Sylvanus Namang said the Governorship seat has eluded Mangu people for over 40 years and said it is time for them to unite and produce the next Governor in the state. Namang said Biggs has brought life into the APC and cautioned those who are thinking of defecting to other political parties to remain in the APC for the prosperity of the state. He urged Mangu people to go out enmasse for and participate in INEC registration to enable them to exercise their franchise during the 2023 election. A member representing Mangu North in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Abdul Yanga said he will work to ensure Mangu produce the next Governor. He said Biggs is the only aspirant that is acceptable in Mangu and across the 17 Local Government Areas of Plateau State. Chairman All Progressives Congress (APC), Mangu Local Government Area, Ladan Abdullahi said with Sunday Biggs, Plateau people will not be disappointed in 2023. He noted that Mangu Local Government is prepared to champion the course of Sunday Biggs to succeed Governor Simon Lalong in 2023. Abdullahi said Biggs has the experience and the intellectual capacity to attract enduring development to Plateau State, having worked with former Governor Joshua Dariye, Jonah David Jang and now Governor Simon Lalong. He explained that Biggs is the only Governorship aspirant in Plateau that understand the challenges of Plateau State and have the capacity to tackle them headlong. The party chairman later presented Mr Sunday Biggs to the people of Mangu and Plateau State for the 2023 governorship election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more