The present economic hardship experienced by Nigerians is not restricted to the country as it is a global phenomenon, the Federal Government has said. According the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, who stated this during his regular media briefing in Abuja on Monday, government is doing all that is necessary to make life more bearable for citizens. According to him, the government has been confronted with challenges which it has been addressing on a daily basis and has laid a foundation for a better future. He said: “If only we met a foundation like this, we would have built on it. If anybody talks of hardship, it is a global phenomenon. Tell me one country in the world where it is rosier in 2022 than 2015. But we continue to meet with challenges, we have security challenges, we have health challenges, the pandemic. “The beauty of it is that this government is daily addressing the issues. This administration is laying such a foundation for a Nigeria that in a few years time, those who are abusing us will come back and praise us.” More details to come… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details