The Federal Government has inaugurated a Joint Committee of Maritime security and capacity development to enhance growth for the industry in Nigeria. Speaking at the inauguration on Wednesday in Abuja, the Minister of State for Transportation, Sen Gbemisola Saraki reiterated the resolve by the government to enhance security and capacity development in the maritime industry through collaborations with relevant stakeholders in the sector. Saraki stated that the purpose of the collaboration was to bring together all stakeholders in the Maritime Sector to ensure capacity building and job creation, aimed at improving security and strategies for the advancement of the Maritime Industry in line with global best practices. “The potential in the industry when fully utilised would positively impact in the lives of the citizens and reduce youths restiveness in the country,” she said. According to a statement by Eric Ojiekwe, the Minister bemoaned the challenges of sea piracy in the country, noting that a lot was being lost by member states as a result of lack of harmonious working relationship. In her remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Feder Ministry of Transportation, Dr Magdalene Ajani, who was represented by the Director, Special Duties, Kafayat Salami, said the Committee was set up by the Honourable Minister of State to provide a veritable platform to cross- fertilize ideas and identify challenges in the Maritime Industry. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Dr Ajani, therefore enjoined the members who are drawn from various sectors of the Industry to use their sectorial experiences in advising the government on ways to improve the sector, saying: “Nigeria is yet to maximise its potential in the Maritime Industry and these has to do with our inability to address critical challenges such: as the underutilisation of the eastern ports, ineffective implementation of the cabotage regime and the insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea amongst others.” She thanked the Honourable Minister of State for the initiative to constitute a Committee to reposition the Nigerian Maritime Industry for better performance and enhanced productivity that is geared towards building an efficient Maritime Industry that will guarantee sustainable socio-economic development. On her part, the Chairperson House Committee on Maritime Education and Administration, Hon Lynda Chuba Ikpeazu, reiterated the support of the National Assembly with the collaboration as it is geared towards enhancing service delivery in the Industry. Speaking earlier, the Chairman Governing Board, Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Rear Admiral, J.A Ajani (Rtd), said the Board will formulate policies and design strategies which would aid the implementation of the partnership with the Ministry, the Academy and the Nigerian Navy. Also speaking, the Rector, Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Commodore Duja Emmanuel Effedua, (rtd) welcomed the initiative and expressed readiness to collaborate, while informing the Stakeholders on the upgraded facilities and the Certification of its courses by International Maritime Organization (IMO). In attendance were: The Chief of Naval Engineering, NHQ, Rear Admiral, Suleiman El- Ladan, Acting Director, Maritime Safety and Security, Adaji Asma’u, Director, PRS, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Alhaji Musa Talle, amongst others. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG inaugurates joint committee on maritime security, capacity development Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa FG inaugurates joint committee on maritime security, capacity development ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details