One of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has called the Sharia Council of Nigeria to speedily find a way of creating political departments that would encourage Muslims to participate fully in politics. Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State who made the remark at the Annual National Conference and Pre-Ramadan meeting of the Supreme Council for Shari’ah in Nigeria (SCSN), held at GMT hotel, Osogbo, Osun State, affirmed that setting up of the political directorate by the Islamic body would promote Muslims in politics. The political warlord who was represented by the Asiwaju Musulumi of Yorubaland, Tunde Badmus, apparently being referred to the directorate of politics newly created by the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), charged other religions to emulate the faith mission in this direction by creating their own directorates also.  “Other religious groups should commence political sensitisation by creating political departments or directorate among themselves to promote their own.” “You should create a political wing among yourself so that it will further gear your participation in politics. It will be a good platform to support your brothers who are vying for political positions. He stressed that “there is a need for us to act towards our prayers, the emergence of a good leader but we need to partake in political activities.” In his own speech at the programme, the president, Supreme Council for Shari’ah in Nigeria, Sheikh Abdurrasheed Hadiytullah, charged muslims in the country to make use of the advantage of their numerical strength to bear, in the forthcoming elections atall levels, in our communities. I believe we have all heard about the recent arrogant calls and ringing bells asserting that the next President must be a Christian. “This is in spite of the fact that it was the Muslim majority in the Southwest (4 largest states) and the North (17½ states out of 19), that paved the way for Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan to be Presidents.” “So if we are truly operating in a democracy, we should silence this arrogance call, by getting Muslims everywhere, especially the Youths, to register before the end of the current Continuous Voter’s Registration, and even more importantly, address the issue of voter apathy, a creeping reluctance to Vote during elections.” “Frankly, in a sense the problem of Voter apathy is reasonably understandable, and the reason for this trend, especially in the North, is the high expectations created and a clear failure of the Federal and most State Governments, to fulfill major electoral promises that affect the ordinary people.” “Before the 2015 elections, the President and other politicians made categorical promises to reduce the pump price of Petrrepair the existing refineries and establish new ones, petrol subsidy, moderate the foreign exchange rate, bring an end to Boko Haram insurgency and other related issues of insecurity, etc.” “This is partly because political aspirants make promises and assumptions, as outsiders looking in. However, justified or not, as leaders of the Ummah, it is our responsibility to reverse this negative trend, if we are truly committed to ensuring a just and fair democratic outcome in the forthcoming and future elections,” he concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Create political directorates  Create political directorates Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Create political directorates  Create political directorates ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team