TAIWO AMODU, who was in Uyo, reports on the declaration by a member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Onofiok Luke for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State. Last Wednesday, the Ibom Hall in Uyo,Akwa Ibom State capital,  was filled to capacity as certain top citizens in the South-South State, chieftains of the People›s Democratic Party, the physically challenged, market women and Youths came together to honour one of their own. The occasion was the commemoration of the 44th birthday and formal declaration for the governorship ticket of the PDP by a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly and member, House of Representatives, representing Etinan/ Nsit Ibom/ NsitUbium Federal Constituency, HonourableOnofiok Luke. Unveiling his blueprint for the state tagged: Building Together,Growing Together through the Power of Conviction,  the Chairman, House Committee on Judiciary, paid glowing tributes to  successive administrations in the state whom he noted had laid a strong foundation he intends to build on if given the PDP ticket and ultimately, winning next governorship election. From the pioneer civilian governor of the state, Obong Victor Attah to the man with the sobriquet, the Uncommon Transformer, GodswillAkpabioand the incumbent, Udom Emmanuel, Honourable Luke, who told the gathering that he is the bridge between the past, present and future, spoke about them in glowing terms. He promised to rally the abundant human resources towards building a vibrant and diverse economy in the state, while leveraging infrastructure development and active youthful population to create jobs and provide visionary and selfless leadership to consolidate on the gains of past and present administrations. After acknowledging the achievements of past and future administration for the solid foundation on socio-economic infrastructure, Luke submitted that it was time to build the average Akwa-Ibomites, through empowerment to compete favourably with their peers in others states, outside the region and globally.He said: «This is the time to reinvent our economy and society to ensure a rapid progression on economic development and shared prosperity trajectory; to hearken to the yearnings and aspirations of our people; to restore hope and earn the trust of our people in governance; to provide the critical infrastructure that has so easily eluded us; to end the neglect of rural communities; to empower the women and youth; to support our micro, small and medium scale enterprises; to reduce the incidence and severity of poverty in our land. The most important part of my value proposition is increasing our productivity level to ensure that Akwa Ibom State can compete with other emerging economies. We can do this easily if we engender a greater sense of inclusiveness by ensuring that as we build together, we will also partake in the benefits, and grow together. Akwa Ibom is one of the most peaceful and resource-rich states in Nigeria, blessed with brilliant minds. It is therefore important for us to invest in human capacity development to improve skills and empower our people to build and grow, while improving infrastructure and attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into the state.»  Three-horse race The state is divided into three senatorial districts of Akwa Ibom North also known as Uyo, Akwa-Ibom North West (Ikot Ekpene) and Akwa-Ibom South (Eket).While the first civilian governor was from Uyo in the person of Obong Victor Attah, the settled zoning arrangement moved the ticket to IkotEkpene with Akpabio ruling for eight years and was succeeded by his anointed choice from Akwa-Ibom South, (Eket) Udom Emmanuel, about to complete his two term next year for the zoning arrangement to start afresh from Uyo.Contenders for the PDP ticket include the preferred candidate of Governor Emmanuel, UmoEno, and a cleric who has since resigned from his position as current Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources in the state. The governor was said to have presented Eno to a select group of PDP chieftains at the Government House, Uyo. Apart from Honourable Luke, others who have vowed to seek the ticket in defiance of Governor Emmanuel›s anointed candidate are Senator representing, Uyo senatorial district and Chairman Senate Committee on Upstream Petroleum Resources, ObongBassey Albert (OBA). Honourable James Iniama, Akan Udofia and Akan Okon are also seeking the blessings of party leaders and delegates for the governorship ticket. Interestingly, Honourable Luke and the governor’s preferred successor, HonourableEno, hail from the same local governmentarea – NsitUbium. It was, however, revealed that the race for the PDP ticket is between three aspirants: the governor’sfavoured candidate, Honourable Eno; Onofiok Luke who enjoys large followership among the youths and the average Akwa-Ibom electorate, and the former Commissioner for Finance, Senator Akpan.A party source said that «given a free, fair primary, the race is between Honourable Luke and Senator Akpan.” It was further discovered that certain chieftains of the party, who enjoy government patronage, have since lined up behind Governor Emmanuel’sfavoured candidate ahead of the party primary.Endorsements have since come handy for Eno  from certain stakeholders across the three senatorial districts..A party source, nonetheless, said in confidence that despite the heavy financial war chest of the incumbent governor, two of the leading aspirants, particularly Onofiok Luke may spring a surprise at the primary. The source recalled that in the camp of Governor Emmanuel, the Chairman, House Committee, is being dismissed as too young to rule, to the consternation of his supporters and party chieftains who knew his role in the second term tenure secured by the governor It was gathered that Luke›s aspiration enjoys the blessing of PDP chieftains inthe state, who have promised him in confidence that they would mobilise delegates for him on the day of primary. “The gale of endorsement of HonourableEno is a smokescreen. Those you have seen or read about endorsing Eno openly are wary of the power of the incumbent. They mill around Government House to tell Governor Emmanuel what he wants to hear but are secretly working against his favoured candidate,” the source said. Open endorsements have also come handy for Luke from some groups in the state. Some party delegates operating under the aegis of theGreat Supporters of Onofiok Luke, said they had resolved to support him in 2023 irrespective of the antics of the state government to endorse one aspirant.Speaking on behalf of the group, when they met with the Director of Operations, ‘Amazing Grace campaign organisation’, Mr. VictorBrownson, leader of the team, Abraham Joshua Udoekong, said they decided to endorse Luke as their preferred aspirant because he has the capacity, character, love for the people, ideas and the passion to drive economic and social development of the state.Udoekong further said they gave themselves a mandate to scout for and mobilise committed delegates for the former Speaker of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly. He added that they were not unsettled   by recent political happenings in the state, assuring that their resolution to support Onofiok Luke at the party primary was absolute. Apparently reacting to those, who dismissed him as too young for the exalted office, Luke said at his declaration. His words: «To those who think I am too young,I ask them: what is the age of Emmanuel Macron? I refer them to Donald Duke! How old was General YakubuGowon when he became president?» To the delegates who will ultimately decide the PDP standard bearer in the next governorship election, Honourable Luke admonished them not to surrender their conscience to ephemeral pecuniary gains but subordinate themselves to the larger interest of growth and development of the state. He equally appealed to the PDP National Working Committee led by Senator IyorchiaAyu and the PDP Governor›s Forum to ensure transparent, free and fair Primary where an aspirant acceptable to all tendencies would emerge. «I want to speak to our party. I stood by this party for over 20 years. I challenge publicly, anyone who knew I collected money to back Udom for second term,let him come out and say it publicly!  Let the dream of giving youth opportunity to   take leadership position be  a reality in Akwa-Ibom. To our Governors Forum, it won›t be too much if the youths are given opportunity to produce governor in Akwa-Ibom. That won›t be too much. I call on the youths, I have been an advocate of peace. But the greatest peace is guaranteed by God almighty and inclusiveness. To delegates, you know in your hearts, the person who will protect your interest. To the PDP, you know I am your best foot forward. I present myself for this task. God bless Akwa-Ibom.»  No cause for alarm— Commissioner Amidst apprehension that the PDP which has governed Akwa – Ibom since 1999 could self-destruct after the primary as a result of deep-seated anger trailing Governor Emmanuel’s orchestrated plot to impose his favoured candidate, his Information Commissioner, ImeEmemobong, allayed the fears of party chieftains. Speaking with our correspondent, Ememobong, expressed confidence that none of the contenders for the party governorship ticket would defect to any other platform or work against the interest of the PDP at the next general elections.He said: «All the gentlemen contesting, they love the PDP and won›t leave. All of them got to where they›re through the PDP. I doubt if any of them will work against the PDP. Many of them want to be governor, but they know that there can only be one person that will emerge. «The rest will team up and support the candidate. Politics is war without guns. We will sort ourselves out. APC is not a threat here.» Ememobong said Governor Emmanuel, being the party leader, would initiate reconciliation meeting at the end of the party primary. He stated: «A time will come when that will happen. The governor will at some point step in and settle the issue. Those contesting are all brothers and they›ll meet and do what›s best for the state in the end. I can assure you.» ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details