Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Aminu Tambuwal has disclosed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is confused and that the PDP must take advantage of this to rescue Nigeria. He made this assertion in Kaduna on Saturday when he paid a consultation visit to the Kaduna PDP secretariat where he met with stakeholders of the party. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) cannot even manage their own party affairs, how much more of providing quality governance for Nigeria. “Therefore, PDP must be strategic and deliberate in coming up with formula for winning elections in 2023. “PDP must plan well in winning elections and avoid all forms of squabbles amongst us. The APC is confused and more confused in the running of the economy of Nigeria with no defined leadership. According to the PDP presidential aspirant, their party must take advantage of their confusion to wrestle power from APC and give Nigeria quality leadership. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE To this end, the Sokoto state governor maintained, “I have worked as a legislator, Judiciary and Executive. So I have all it takes to provide the needed governance in Nigeria. He then appealed to the members of the party  to understand that the dynamics of today are different from what it was in the past and we must factor all into consideration for a standard flag bearer of our party” Members of his entourage included the former Governor of Sokoto State, Attairu Bafarawa, former Minister and deputy governor of Sokoto State, Mukhtar Shagari, former deputy governor of Zamfara State Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, former National chairman and Board chairman Alhaji Haliru Bello among several other personalities. Earlier, he visited the country of former vice President Namadi Sambo, former caretaker Chairman of the PDP and Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi and former Governor of Kaduna State Mukhtar Ramalan Yero. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team