Kaduna State Chairman of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hon Hassan Felix Hyat, has assured that the party under his mandate will ensure a level playing ground for all aspirants who will be vying for any elected position. Hyat gave the assurance at the party secretariat when he received a Gubernatorial aspirant, Alhaji Haruna Yunusa Saeed and his entourage who was there to officially declare his intention to contest for the number one seat in the state on Tuesday. He noted that the party will not be intimidated by any aspirant’s former position or resources, but rather the love of the majority of the people of their candidacy. According to him, “if you look at the officials of the party’s constitution, we have over three thousand delegates that will participate in the primaries, when you look at the officials, the people you are referring to, we are not up to one hundred, it means that you need to go out to where all those three thousand are, they are in the rural areas, and whoever the people vote for, whoever they bring to us, we have no reason to change their decisions.” Declaring his intention before the party members, supporters, among others, Alhaji Saeed, said the PDP and the people, despite numerous challenges, have remained unshaken in the last sixteen years. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Today we have another opposition party that has grown strong. The opposition has grown. They have power in the state and national, sixteen years ago, there was no opposition. “The country is faced with serious insecurity that we never had while PDP was in power sixteen years ago. Poverty is on the land everywhere, sixteen years ago, it was not like that, our infrastructure is in shambles, especially in the rural areas, there are some roads that are rehabilitated and constructed in Kaduna, but those of us in the rural areas have not enjoyed the existence of govt, it was not there sixteen years ago.” In view of this, Hon Saeed, who is the Former Accountant General of Kaduna State said it is necessary they make a change at both the state and national levels, noting that is what the party is out for. “Allow me to make the declaration, conscious of the facts that there are too many challenges that we need to address, and also in that office, we need somebody with that capacity and all the qualities I mentioned to give me the mandate to lead the good people of Kaduna State,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details