The Management of the Federal University, Lokoja (FUL) has secured N1 billion from TETFund to commence the construction of the Senate Building for the institution. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Professor Olayemi Akinwumi, disclosed this on Tuesday while speaking with journalists on the side of commissioning of some projects at the Felele campus of the institution in Lokoja. He said the consultant for the project would soon commence work, adding that the effort was part of his administration to improve the infrastructure of the institution, to enhance its statutory responsibility of providing quality education to the students among others. The Vice-Chancellor added that JAMB had approved the MBBS programme for the university to commence medicine courses in its newly established College of Health Sciences. According to him, his administration has embarked on various innovative programmes; offering various educational programmes to bring education closer to more people and to boost its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Vice-Chancellor, whose administration has led to the infrastructural transformation of the university, attributed the development to divine intervention and effective teamwork he introduced between the management and the members of staff of the university. He also told journalists that he and his team had embarked on the idea of contacting prominent indigenes of the state, including former governors, on the need for them to make moral and financial contributions to the development of the institution. The need for that, he argued, became necessary because government alone cannot shoulder the financial responsibility of the university. Earlier, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Dr Chris Adichije, commissioned the printing press at the Adankolo campus of the university and the road linking faculties and planted trees at its Felele campus. Dr Adichije whose 77th birthday coincided with the event commended the current Vice-Chancellor and his predecessors for their efforts in transforming the institution toward being recognized as a first-class citadel of education in the country and the world at large. Speaking with journalists on the current ASUU strike, the Pro-Chancellor, who is a member of a 7-man Committee government raised to find a lasting solution to the strike, expressed sympathy with the lecturers, the students and government on the issue. The septuagenarian, who sued for peace and understanding between government and ASUU, expressed optimism that the problem would be a thing of the past. All the projects commissioned were executed by the administration of Prof Akinwumi. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details