Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, was the Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo Campaign Council in the state in 2019. In this interview by SAM NWAOKO, he speaks on his expectations from the party in the 2023 polls to further fortify APC, and how the party can win the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti. Excerpts:  Your party is looking forward to a favourable result in the coming governorship election in Ekiti State. How do you think the APC can achieve this? I am very optimistic that the APC will win the June 18 governorship election on two bases. One, the incumbent governorship and our leader, Governor Kayode Fayemi has done exceedingly well. Is it in the area of education, road infrastructures, building construction, education, health, good governance, security and social investment? Governor Fayemi in my own estimation has done creditably well in all these areas and I know that Ekiti people are not ungracious, they will like to reciprocate the good gesture. Don’t forget that it was Governor Fayemi’s impressive performance in his first term that was rewarded in 2018. So we are still going to witness same in 2022 with the way our people will vote for Biodun Oyebanji/Monisade Afuye to consolidate on what Governor Fayemi has done.  Are you not worried by internal wrangling caused by the governorship primary? Don’t you think the deep-seated acrimony could cost you victory? I don’t think so. Though I can’t deny the fact that the APC has its own challenges just like every other political settings and human institutions, but we are addressing them. Don’t forget that President Muhammadu Buhari as the national leader had propelled the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee to set up Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led reconciliation committee and the committee is working hard. Knowing that we also have our own internal problem in Ekiti, the party through the instrumentality of Governor Kayode Fayemi set up a reconciliation committee comprising bigwigs like the deputy governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, former deputy governors Professor Modupe Adelabu and Chief Biodun Aluko and other party chieftains to reach out to the aggrieved. We believe that before the end of April, we would have been able to resolve some of these crises substantially for us to have a common front to record victory in June. Getting to an election day with divided home is not the best, but I am optimistic that all these challenges shall be resolved in the interest of all of us.  Going by the new Electoral Law, conduct of the primaries for the 2023 presidential, national and state assembly elections will soon hold. Do you have any ambition? Yes. I have always been contesting to be a Senator representing Ekiti North District. I did this in 2011, 2015 and 2019. If you check the records, I had always performed well in the primary only to lose narrowly to the occupant of the seat in APC. I had not rocked the boat because of this, I am a loyal party man and I think loyalty must be rewarded this time. Each time I lost, I had taken my time to spend my hard-earned resources and time working hard for whoever our party picked to win the election. My belief had always been that the party is supreme and whatever decision it took must be respected. But this time, I think those of us who had been loyal and patient with the party’s decisions must be rewarded to further buoy loyalty among APC members.  You sound so confident? What do you think stands you out? Well, the APC has a lot of good human materials from Ekiti North Senatorial district. Coincidentally, Governor Kayode Fayemi is also from that axis. But facts are always sacred. The APC members from that axis knew who their true friend is. In the last 10 years, I’ve had good rapport with my party men and women, giving them helping hands even when we were in the opposition with bleak future. I didn’t mind, I have always made myself available to them. Let me tell you this, I almost gave up on this Senatorial ambition because God has really blessed me, but my people have been piling pressure on me, urging me to contest. Some were even sending messages of hope to me that I have to contest that this time would be when my loyalty and contributions to APC will be rewarded. On this basis, I will be contesting for Senatorial seat on the platform of our great party, APC, and I am confident, just like my people say that my loyalty will be compensated this time.  You know that entrenched interest is also part of the game. Are you confident that the APC leadership can look your way this time? Yes, because the APC is a good party that rewards loyalty and patience. The party was formed to cater for the aspirations of all members who are qualified and ready for service. I have given my best to this party at both comfortable and trying times. Without being immodest, I am one of the few unifying factors in APC in Ekiti Oke. I remain one of those politicians from that axis that have displayed utmost sense of dedication to our party and I merit whatever I am aspiring for, it is a legitimate ambition going by what we have contributed to help APC become a strong party in Ekiti .We have given our best to this party, the people have seen it and they are working hard to ensure that the party recognises my efforts and crown such.  Are you expecting the party to impose you over others? No, I hate any action that is undemocratic, I am a democrat myself. What someone like me can request for is the party conducting free, fair and credible primary to test our popularity. This is the best way to grow our internal democracy. With the trend of things and with the way courts are nullifying party primaries, I expect our party to be more circumspect of how it picks its candidates this time. Let them follow due process to pick the candidate. They should also know that the ultimate power belongs to the people and if they are trying to apply consensus, let there be due diligence and observance of the true consensus process, so that we can be together to defeat the opposition in the coming polls.  So, you believe you have enough clout and the popularity to clinch the Senatorial ticket? The next National Assembly election will be more of popularity test; trust and competence in Ekiti, because of what our people are presently experiencing. If you go to Ekiti North, our people are really bitter with the APC because of that impression that the current occupant of the seat didn’t do well. Those who elected him consider him aloof. They are expecting a change of guard and APC must listen to them, they must not take the people for granted. They need someone that is popular, competent and trustworthy and that is what I represent in that zone. We have been together through thick and thin. Whether we are in government or not, we have always been together. I shall sustain this if the party can entrust me with the Senatorial ticket, because serving people selflessly is in my DNA.  What are those things that you will do differently if given the ticket and you win? I will bring on board good performance, good representation, good rapport with my constituents. You may not understand what I am talking about, go to Ekiti North and make inquiries about my personality; they will tell you that I am one politician they can trust. I am one politician that is kind and close to the people. Even while abroad, I am still in constant touch with my people, I have an avenue through which I reach out to them. Why should I now abandon them while in Abuja? I am a man of the people and I quite appreciate the fact that the leadership of the APC is aware of this and they had promised that the party will at the right time compensate my loyalty and I think the time should be now.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details