Stakeholders across the agricultural sector have called for livestock and pastoralism support to strengthen animal health. The stakeholders also called for the implementation of the humanitarian peace development nexus approach in the context of protracted crises, with focus on local opportunities in terms of resources such as land, water and human resources (youth in particular) and positive narratives. This was made known in a communique issued at the end of the 13th Multidisciplinary Team Meeting initiated by the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) Subregional Office for West Africa with the theme: “Joining efforts to build resilient agri-food systems in West Africa and Sahel.” According to the communique, there is a need for the engagement of youth and women at the heart of agri-food systems transformation interventions, related projects and programmes. It also reiterated the need to leverage South-south cooperation to strengthen knowledge sharing, up-scaling good practices, capacity building and technical assistance. It, however, called for increased interactions and collaboration with research, extension institutions and producers organisations in the development and adoption of innovative products and technologies to support agri-food systems transformation. “There is a need to strengthen the adequacy of the regulatory environment to increase agricultural production, improve nutrition, raise the standard of living of rural populations and contribute to economic growth in the sub-region”, the communique noted. Furthermore, the communique recommended that the FAO continues to strengthen the efforts to consolidate the partnership with sub-regional institutions, UN agencies, private sector, and support the implementation of the regional initiatives for the resilience of agri-food systems. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Stakeholders seek livestock, pastoralism support for conflict prevention Stakeholders seek livestock, pastoralism support for conflict prevention ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team