The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, has reiterated the Federal Government’s resolve to support Artisanal and Small Scale Miners to access funds that will increase their productivity. The Minister made this known during his inspection of the ongoing construction of the Gemstones Market in Ojoo, Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State. He encouraged miners to come together as different Cooperative Groups to access funds set aside to support their activities. He said the Miners can access loans from 2million to N100million payable in 15years at 5 per cent interest rate per annum. Adegbite said a loan of N2million and below would only require a guarantor while a miner seeking to access a loan above the sum of N2million would need to provide required collateral. “I realised that a lot of people could not access the money because of collateral and I advised that it be reduced so that those who need a small loan of not more than N2million can access without a collateral but a guarantor of level 14 and above in the civil service,” he further explained. On the construction of the gemstones market, the Minister said the gemstone market in Ojoo is where the gemstone would be identified and graded, cut, polished and ready to be made into jewellery. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said the people being trained in gemstones design in Abuja would populate the Ibadan gemstones market as well as the Gold Souk in Kano since they would be working on jewellery and gemstones. He, however, noted that the gemstones mining is not limited to Oyo State as he pointed out other states where gemstones could be found including Taraba, Plateau and Abuja among others. The Minister re-emphasised that what the government is doing with the six (6) regional projects are demonstration of possibilities for investors as he encouraged them to take advantage of it and invest not only in mining but in processing as well. On the operationalisation of the regional projects, he said the government would not be involved in the running of the projects. In his words, “by the time these projects are completed, we are looking at the system of PPP, where we have facility management and plant management systems in place who will run this projects and of course, there will be recourse to government as appropriate but we don’t want to get the government involved in the running of the six clusters”, he added. Adegbite said sustainability is key in running the projects as he explained that the government would give them to those who would run them profitably and generate revenue for the government. “It’s going to be a win-win business, whoever runs any of the projects will make money from it, will make money for the government and also enhance the value of what is produced in that particular neighbourhood,” he emphasised. Earlier in his remarks, the General Secretary of Miners Association of Nigeria(MAN), Mr Dele Ayanleke, commended the Federal Government for the establishment of the six (6) regional projects. Ayanleke said the project would improve ASM productivity, boost their confidence and discourage the export of raw ore. He called on Miners to take advantage of the 5 per cent interest rate loan made available by the Federal Government to procure necessary equipment that would make them perform optimally. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG reiterates support for small scale miners to access fund Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa FG reiterates support for small scale miners to access fund ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more