The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), on Monday handed over a hospital facility worth N150million to Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike, Ikwo (AE-FUNAI) in Ebonyi State. The Commission made the handover in Afikpo-South Local Government Area of Ebonyi through it Chairman, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, who was represented by Nzebunachi Chukwuma, an ICPC Superintendent. He noted that the project at Ebunwana Community in Afikpo South local government area of the state was tracked by Constituency and Executive Project Tracking Group (CEPTG) of the ICPC. Owasanoye said the hospital which is fully equipped with state-of-the-art medical facilities was conceived as a Medical outpost of FUNAI in the area. According to him, the hospital was meant to serve as a Teaching Hospital for her medical students. “The project was appropriated in 2019 and completed in March 2020 at the cost of the above. It was facilitated by the former Senator representing Ebonyi South Senatorial District, Senator Sonni Ogbuoji. “After the completion, the local community unofficially took over the hospital even though it was not meant for the community but they went ahead to appoint a consultant to manage the hospital on an arrangement of a profit-sharing formula between the community and the consultant. “The project have been recovered by the CEPTG team and is being handed over to the university community March 25, 2022. “Meanwhile, investigations are ongoing to unravel how the local community got access and took control of the hospital without any official ceremony,” he added. The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof Sunday Elom, who was represented by Prof Smart Otu, Dean Faculty of Social Sciences, described the project as a unique intervention. Elom assured the community of immediate and effective commencement of activity in the hospital. He commended ICPC Chairman for initiating such project and discribed it as a welcome development, capable of preventing execution of substandard ventures and also stimulate people into delivering good jobs. “The community should know they will be first beneficiary of the project. We will collaborate to ensure the place is used optimally,” Elom said. Meanwhile, the Director of Physical Planning, Works and Services AE-FUNAI, Dr Ezeocha Iheanacho stated that the structure and equipment of the project were in good state. “What we met at the hospital is satisfactory,” Iheanacho said. The community Chairman, Dr Ama Udu-Aka expressed satisfaction that the mutual relationship anticipated was coming to play and hoped it continues. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details