A CHIEFTAIN of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, has stated that the second term of office for Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is sacrosanct. According to him, the stability of Lagos State must be prioritised even as the debate over the second-term ambition of Governor Sanwo-Olu continued. Ogunlewe made this known during an interview on Arise TV at the weekend. According to him, while everyone has the constitutional right to desire any political office, beating Sanwo-Olu will be a tall order. This, he said, is because the incumbent governor is doing things that please Lagosians. Ogunlewe stated that the issue was not about Sanwo-Olu per se, but the party policies being implemented and the services being rendered to Lagosians. He said: “What Sanwo-Olu has been able to achieve in Lagos and what he wishes to complete, it is the wish of Lagosians that he should be allowed to complete them.” He added that Governor Sanwo-Olu should be allowed to sustain and consolidate his achievements in his first term, as, according to him, “We don’t want disruption again. The breaking of policies and government has negatively affected Lagos State and we must avoid it at all costs”. He declared that Governor Sanwo-Olu is best positioned to return as the governor of the state for a second term. He added that it will be an uphill task for any other candidate to prevail against him in any contest for the coveted seat. Ogunlewe however, admitted that it was normal for different constituencies to have conflicts of interests but said that as loyal party members, they could always discuss and find a middle ground. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more