Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Thursday, performed the groundbreaking for the construction of permanent base for the 671 Nigeria Air force Detachment at Ajia, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The permanent base is on an expanse of 58.58 hectares donated by the Oyo State government to the Nigeria Air Force (NAF). In his remarks before the symbolic turning of sod, Makinde announced a donation of N500 million to support the air force base construction while also assuring other forms of support to hasten the completion of the project. Makinde said the state-supported the project because it keys into his administration’s plan on having a robust security architecture and expanding the state’s economy. He held that the base will enhance the operational base of the Air Force and improve the response time of men of the Armed Forces to crises, criminalities. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Speaking at the event, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, said having a permanent base in Ibadan will address constraints in the unit’s responsiveness to security challenges in the state. Amao stressed that the base will help the Air Force better perform its security mandate in the state and extension of its reach to ensure security in the South-West geopolitical zone. Noting inhibited operations owing to flights involving the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Amao said having the Ibadan base will help the Air Force seamlessly conduct air operations in the South-West geopolitical zone. Over time, he noted that men of the Air Force had to cope with staying in dispersed locations, a scenario he said will be addressed with having a permanent base. Amao praised the Makinde-led administration for providing land for the project as well as the assurance of support for the construction of the base and aircraft operations. Furthermore, he lauded the federal government for supporting the Air Force with infrastructure and the enabling environment. Specifically, he appreciated the Vice-Chairman, House Committee on Air Force, Honourable Abass Agboworin for being a veritable link between the Oyo State Government and the Nigeria Air Force towards the start of the project. The event had in attendance state deputy governor, Rauf Olaniyan; deputy Speaker of the State Assembly, Honourable Abiodun Fadeyi; men of the Nigeria Air Force; members of the Oyo State executive council; former Chairman of the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), Chief Bayo Oyero; Olugbon of Orile-Igbon, Oba Francis Alao; traditional rulers and several other personalities. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details