The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Major General Shuabu Ibrahim has commended the leadership and members of the House of Representatives for their efforts and supports in the NYSC Trust fund bill. The DG who spoke during the swearing-in ceremony of the 2022 Batch A, Stream II orientation course at the NYSC permanent Orientation camp, Ise Orun/Emure-Ekiti, also hailed the support of stakeholders during the public hearing held recently. A total of 1,793 corps members were deployed to Ekiti state orientation camp for both the state and Lagos. Represented by the Ekiti state coordinator, Mrs Mary Chikezie, he explained that the bill when finally passed would help in transforming the scheme resolve the infrastructure deficit. According to him, ” I consider it appropriate to use this opportunity to thank the House of Representatives for the progress made so far in the legislative processes on the Bill for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund. “I also wish to thank Nigerians for the continuous show of support for the proposed Trust Fund, especially as overwhelmingly demonstrated during the public hearing conducted by the House Committee on Youth on the matter. “I wish to once again appeal to the appropriate authorities to provide the necessary enablement for the actualization of the Fund. This will surely enhance the smooth operation of the Scheme, especially by addressing the challenge of infrastructure. It will also boost our skills and entrepreneurship development programme aimed at empowering Corps members for self-employment and wealth creation.” He advised the corps members to be law abiding and remained committed to the scheme, saying that all efforts must be geared towards promoting unity and peace of the country. Ibrahim maintained that there is need for the corps members to embrace entrepreneur skills to improve their livelihood, adding that white-collar jobs are not available anymore in the society. “At this juncture, I would like to remind you that white-collar jobs are not readily available. Therefore, I encourage you to avail yourselves of opportunities for self-employment offered through our Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme. You are expected to choose from any of the skill areas, and make yourselves available for the training, which starts from the Orientation Camp. On our part, Management will continue to work with relevant stakeholders for the success of the programme,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details