Olu of Siun in Ogun State, Oba Lawrence Adisa Oyeyinka, has charged members of the Nigerian Institutions of Surveyors (NIS) to intensify campaigns against quackery. He described the profession as a noble one, enjoining them not to allow any quack to tarnish their image and integrity. The monarch gave the advice in his remarks during the sensitization/town hall meeting carried out by the Ogun State branch of NIS  in his palace He advised that they should work professionally and shun sharp practices that could bring the profession into disrepute, saying that Siun kingdom is ready to work hand in glove, especially in the area of campaigning against shady practices and quackery. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors, Ogun State branch, has called residents to engage them in proper land survey and documentation of land process before and after purchasing a landed property. The Chairman NIS Ogun State branch, Ademola Adebowale, stated this at the palace of Olu of Siun. He urged the monarch, chiefs and members of the public and Siun residents to always patronize registered surveyors for land surveys and documentation, saying the sensitization aimed at curbing the excess of quackery in the profession. He added that genuine surveyors must have a seal and certificate issued by the Surveyors Council of Nigeria (SURCON) to be able to practice, noting that part of what members of the public needed was to get surveyors that could perfect their survey plans and other land documentations. He highlighted qualities of genuine surveyors, which included, a good office, good staffing and proper survey equipment that would depict the coordinates of the parcel of land without ambiguities and within the required accuracy. He urged the residents and government to engage the service of registered surveyors while embarking on building construction, road construction, placement of communication line and mast power line, pipelines and many other construction projects. “Indeed, the cost of consulting a registered surveyor over land matters is by far cheaper compared to what you lose when you are eventually scammed over that land transaction. Please, be wise, engage a registered surveyor, so as to avoid embarrassment, loss of land and other properties’’, he said Also, speaking, the Vice-Chairman, Association of Private Practicing Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN) Ogun State branch, Kayode Adekoya, urged the residents to always make an enquiry from genuine surveyors before engaging in buying and selling of land, adding that survey plans and other landed documents must not be backdated or doctored for any prospective client. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details