THE Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, has commended the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Jabi, for successfully performing open heart surgeries on four patients for the first time. Mamora who gave the commendation on Monday in Abuja, while he visited the facility for assessment of the patients and some equipment in the hospital said the team which carried out the surgery revealed that the procedures were done seamlessly as the patients were already getting better. Mamora further noted that it was important for Nigerians to encourage and promote the success stories of Nigerian professionals, as such would discourage medical tourism outside the country. He said: “If we do something on a positive side and it is not reported, then it would be like lighting a candle and putting it under the table. “This is one feat that must be commended by all and even as we give glory to God, let the accolades be given to President Muhammadu Buhari. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This is because his administration has upgraded our facilities, health and medical facilities in general. “And it is a gradual process of improving our capacity to handle cases that are considered impossible, because all along we have the capacity in terms of personnel. “What is needed is the conducive environment, in terms of facilities and with that we will be able to fly out trades as health sector practitioners”. Similarly, the Medical Director of Federal Medical Center, Jabi, Prof. Saad Ahmed, said that the surgeries were conducted with the support of Save the Heart Foundation. Ahmed called on philanthropists, corporate bodies and well-meaning Nigerians to donate to the facility’s medical indigent fund, so as to generate funds for treatment of patients. “The essence is to domesticate it and make it a routine procedure for the Federal Medical Centre in Abuja. “This is going to be for the benefit of all Nigerians as well as our neighbouring countries and some other parts of the world,” he said. Also, the chairman, board members, FMC Jabi, Dr Alex Tosan commended the medical director, top management and the team that carried out the surgeries. “The patients are doing very fine as most of them are even surprised to find out that the surgery had been conducted. “Within 48 hours, all of them were up and about, none of them suffered from any pain, they are not suffering from any post-traumatic stress that accompanies major surgeries”. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.