OSUN State governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola has appealed to indigenes of Ile-Ife who are protesting the choice of the new Vice Chancellor for the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) to give peace a chance and stop the protest forthwith. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on Tuesday evening, Oyetola noted that ivory towers anywhere in the world are a sacred place and everything must be done to accord it that dignity. He noted that though the state has no role in the choice of who becomes OAU VC, being a Federal institution, he has responsibility for the safety and security of the institution and its workers as the host governor. To this end, he urged all protesting citizens to exercise restraint and allow peace to reign. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He further said: “It is with a heavy heart and a deep sense of concern that I call on the good people of Ile-Ife, especially those protesting over the choice of a new Vice-Chancellor for Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) to stop further protests and give peace a chance. “By their nature and functionality, universities are rules- and convention-based conservative institutions premised on academic and governance autonomy. “If we have any reason to believe that these rules are circumvented, there are laid-down procedures to remedy such situations rather than resorting to self-help. We are known for peace in Osun. We must therefore not do anything to tarnish that enviable reputation,“ Oyetola added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details