The leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Abia State Sen, Orji Uzor Kalu said he forwarded the authentic list of statutory delegates from Abia State to the national leadership of the APC to totally avoid the infiltration and importation of fictitious names and designations by some overzealous party men. Recall that ahead of the party’s national convention slated for 26th March 2022 Abia APC has factions that are contending for the authentic delegates list. However, the Chief Whip of the Senate has put the matter to rest in a letter dated Monday, 14th March 2022 and addressed to the National Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, and members of the planning committee. Titled “Forwarding of the list of statutory delegates from Abia State (APC) to the 2022 National Convention”, the senator said “I write as the Chief Whip of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and leader of APC in Abia State, to convey to your Excellency, the attached authentic list of statutory delegates from Abia State (APC Chapter) as required and provided for in the constitution of our great party APC for the forthcoming National Convention. The list made available to the press has the following as the authentic statutory delegates from Abia State: Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Former Governor (1999-2007); Dr Chris Akomas, Former Deputy Governor, (2007-2011); Prince B. B. Apugo (BOT), Ambassador Sam Nkire, serving and non-serving senators, House of Representatives and House of Assembly, Senator Bob Nwannunu, BoT, among others. Sen. Kalu said “the motive is necessary to totally avoid the infiltration and importation of fictitious names and designations by some overzealous party men.” “Accordingly, with the above, our great party would have avoided certain landmines and embarrassing litigations, hence this list. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Why I forwarded authentic Abia statutory delegates list  Why I forwarded authentic Abia statutory delegates list  Why I forwarded authentic Abia statutory delegates list  Why I forwarded authentic Abia statutory delegates list ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity