The National Publicity Secretary of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Emmanuel Yawe, is dead. Yawe it was gathered died today in Abuja after a protracted illness. In a terse statement by the forum’s Secretary-General, Murtala Aliyu on Friday said, ‘it is with a heavy heart that I bring to your notice the passing away of our Publicity Secretary Chief Emmanuel Yawe this morning. “I have intimated the Chairman Audu Ogbeh and he instructed that I should bring it to the notice of members. “We will be visiting the family and will keep you informed about the burial arrangements. May his gentle soul rest in peace. Meanwhile, it was gathered that his last official engagement was a press release he issued to newsmen in Kaduna yesterday (Thursday) on the death of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Benjamin Chaha. Staff in the secretariat described him, as a dedicated and professional member of the forum. The deceased was born on 21st October 1956 at ​​​Shagu village of Donga local government area of in ​​​Taraba State. A veteran journalist, he was at various times a member, of the Editorial Board of Advisors, The Point Newspaper,
Editorial Board Member, People’s Daily Newspaper, Managing Editor, New Sentinel Newspaper​​​ and Editor, Crystal International News Magazine, Managing Director, Gongola Press, Director General, Governor’s Office, Gongola State, Editor, Sunday Triumph Newspapers ​​​​ Chief Press Secretary, Governor’s Office, Gongola State​ among other YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…ACF Publicity Secretary  ACF Publicity Secretary Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…ACF Publicity Secretary Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more