To ensure good mental health and wellness, an Associate Professor at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Dr Okezie Kanu, has advised surveyors to engage in regular exercises, shun isolation and embrace interactions. Kanu gave the advice during the Annual General Meeting of the Association of Private Practicing Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN). According to him, mental health is the foundation of all wellness, hence professionals must remain healthy physically and mentally for efficiency. While listing requirements for physical, spiritual, financial and emotional health, Kanu enumerated the ills of isolation, which he said could compound avoidable diseases and lead to sickness, suicide and death. He said that necessary factors for wellness included associating with friends and loved ones to eradicate stress and depression as well as group exercises. “Togetherness fosters good mental health. Mental health is the foundation of wellness. Good exercise must be regular and enjoyable; you cannot enjoy good exercise alone. It must be done in togetherness,” Kanu said. He listed the various kinds of stress and the need to adopt the right coping attitude to overcome the ones that were not predictable and beyond human control to avert sinking into depression. Kanu said there was a thin line between wellness and illnesses which depended on attitude and reactions to mental health issues. He said the response to stress could either be positive or negative as some negative behavioural responses could include drugs, alcoholism, anger, irritability and hormonal imbalances. According to him, research shows that about 12,000 to 60,000 thoughts go through the human mind daily, adding that, 70 per cent of those thoughts are usually negative. He, however, urged people to deliberately focus on good thinking by creating the right diversions engaging in hobbies. “Stay positive, trust in the power of time to heal, connect, don’t die in silence. If there is a problem talk with somebody who will understand you. Exercise yourself, exercise your mind, play games. Sometimes laugh at yourself, laugh at your stupidity and make yourself happy,” he said. Kanu said that though stress could generate negative consequences, it could also become a positive motivator to be used to achieve and exceed great opportunities and challenges if taken in good faith. He called for repair of damaged relationships and forgiveness to ensure positive mental health and highlighted some of the consequences of psychonomic illnesses caused by conflict, trauma and stress. National President of  Nigerian Institution of Surveyors, Dr Oluwamotemi Olukayode, represented by Mr Adewebi Vincent, appealed to surveyors to be the best they could be, health-wise and emotionally. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details