A fresh industrial crisis hits Nigeria’s education sector as the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) has directed its members to commence two weeks warning strike with effect from Monday 21, 2022. The union alleged that the refusal of the Federal Government’s to implement a reached agreement was the reason for the industrial action. NAAT also directed its members to shut down all laboratories, workshops, studios and farms for the period of the warning strike. The union noted that the decision for the strike was reached after a virtual National Executive Council meeting where 97.8 per cent of its branches voted in favour of a strike. Furthermore, NAAT accused the government of failing to honour the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with its members despite series of letters written to the government with no response. In a statement signed by NAAT President Ibeji Nwokoma, the association directed its members in all the branches to commence the two weeks warning strike which will end on April 5. Also, in another letter addressed to its branches and signed by its General Secretary, Abubakar Yusuf, NAAT said: “Arising from the resolution of the emergency virtual National Executive Council (NEC) meeting held today Thursday, March 17, 2022, and based on the results of referendum where Forty-seven (47) Branches participated. Forty-six (46) Branches voted in support while One (1) Branch voted against NAAT embarking on a two (2) week warning strike. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “These figures represent 97,8% and 2.2% respectively. After the meeting, five (5) Branches forwarded their results through other electronic means due to their inability to join the virtual NEC meeting as a result of technical hitches. However, the result shows that four (4) Branches voted in favour of a strike while One (1) voted against it. “In view of the above, NEC in-session resolved and direct that all members of NAAT to proceed on a two (2) week warning strike effective from midnight of Monday, March 21, 2012, de to the failure of Federal Government (FG) to address NAAT grievances as contained in her letter earlier sent to FG on 14 days ultimatum dated February 25, 2022. “During this period, all Laboratories, Workshops, Studios and Research Centres shall remain closed, while farm and fieldwork activities shall be suspended. “In the meantime, Branches are also directed to hold Congresses on Monday, March 21, 2022, in the morning to declare the commencement of the warning strike in their respective Branches. “Furthermore, Branches are directed to constitute monitoring teams to ensure compliance and enforcement of the warning strike.” Recall that the National Association of Academic Technologists and Joint Action Committee of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), recently in separate strike notices warned the Federal government of impending industrial disharmony in the country’s education sector and asked for a committed action to be taken. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Fresh crisis hits Nigeria education sector as NAAT commences 14-day warning strike Monday Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Fresh crisis hits Nigeria education sector as NAAT commences 14-day warning strike Monday ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team