Former governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi, has declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidency. The former vice-presidential candidate in the 2019 general election under People Democratic Party (PDP), made his intentions known on Thursday, at the Anambra Government House, Awka. The declaration was made before Anambra State’s traditional rulers, where royal blessings were bestowed on him. Addressing the monarchs, Obi, said he is joining the presidential race to provide adequate security for Nigerians, to manage Nigeria’s resources as he did in Anambra and to ensure that every Nigerian irrespective of tribe, ethnicity and religion have a better life.  “I want to have Borno, Sokoto, Benue, Kogi and Oyo states secured if given the opportunity to rule Nigeria, come 2023. “I am not aspiring just for a political position alone but to ensure that peace, equity and justice is served to all,” he said. Igwe of Iseke, HRH Emma Nnabuife, who blessed Obi on behalf of others commended him for recognising and according them respect in his bid to run for president of Nigeria. Obi also declared his intention before the Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU). The association houses leaders of all the 181 communities in the state. He was received by its national president, Barrister Titus Akudo. Obi was accompanied by Senator Uche Ekwunife, Hon. Chinedu Onwaso, Mr Oselloka Obaze, Prof. Stella Okunna, are among other top PDP supporters. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details