Chairman of Roots Television Nigeria and Presidential aspirant for the 2023 general election, Dumebi Kachikwu, has commended the Senate for what he called its courage and patriotism in thrashing a Bill seeking to amend the Electoral Act 2022. Kachikwu gave the commendation in a statement in Abuja at the weekend. President Muhammadu Buhari had in a letter to the Red Chamber dated February 2022, requested the lawmakers to expunge section 84(12) of the Electoral Act. Further checks revealed that a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja in an order barred President Buhari, Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN; Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila from altering the Act. Senate President Ahmad Lawan had rejected the ruling of the Federal High Court saying the Senate will go ahead to amend the Bill as required by law. The Bill was passed for first reading on Tuesday by the Senate. However, Senators voted overwhelmingly to reject the Bill on Wednesday during its consideration for second reading. Kachikwu who described the action of the Senators as a “bold and heroic act”, maintained that those holding positions in government should not be given an undue advantage in the electoral process. He said: “The Senate deserves the commendation of all for rejecting a Bill seeking to expunge Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, 2022, which bars appointed political office holders from contesting elective political positions without first resigning their appointments. “Nobody can eat his cake and have it. Therefore, let political appointees seeking to contest political positions first resign their appointments before partaking in primaries. “I think this is both fair, just and equitable. Let all aspirants seeking political offices be on the same footing. “This bold and heroic act by the Senate will ensure that political appointees seeking elective offices will not use government resources at their disposal to stifle or muzzle the chances of other aspirants. “The era for using national resources to procure elective position is gone for good.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more