The Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) said its members in the South-West geo-political zone will not vote governors owing pensioners their entitlements in the 2023 general elections. The Union at the end of its quarterly zonal meeting held, on Thursday, in Abeokuta, asked its members to embark on protest (s) over the non-implementation of consequential adjustment in pensions arising from the implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage. The zonal Public Relations Officer of the union, Comrade Olusegun Abatan, while addressing journalists at the end of the meeting attended by Chairmen and Secretaries of Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Lagos and Ekiti states chapters, said that governors in the zone are owing pensioners their gratuities and pensions running into trillion of naira. “We want to advise our members to please shine their eyes and should not be carried away by the sentiment of the politicians. We will not succumb to the pittance the politicians are going to give us. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The meeting has decided that pensioners in the SouthWest would have to have a rethink on who they will give their votes to. And as such, the meeting has decided that pensioners in the SouthWest should not vote governors and governments that are owing them their entitlements, notably gratuities and pensions. “What is progressive and democratic in a government that is owing pensioners humongous amount of money running into billions of naira? “We are not saying that we are going to boycott the election, we are not saying that we are not going to vote, but what we are saying is that pensioners should not vote those governors and governments that are owing them. “The implication of what we are saying is that we are going to have a trial of another government. This is not a matter of disenfranchisement, should we vote for somebody who is owing so that he can continue to impoverish us?” he added. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs We’ll not vote governors owing pensioners in South-West in 2023 ― NUP Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa We’ll not vote governors owing pensioners in South-West in 2023 ― NUP ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details