The police in Asaba have arrested a drug baron, one Sajor Louis, at a blackspot in Camp 74 area of Asaba, the Delta State capital with 91 wraps of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and 124 wraps of loud. Also recovered from him are 50 parcels of SK, some razlers and bottles of liquid mixed with a substance suspected to be Indian hemp. A statement by the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, on Tuesday said the suspect was arrested when operatives raided the black spot at the weekend. The statement further said that 27-year-old Nzubechi Emeka from Egbema local government area of Imo State has been arrested for stealing one unregistered Lifan ladies motorcycle parked in a compound in Obiaruku, headquarters of Ukwani council area of the state. Safe Delta patrol team had trailed the suspect to Umunede in Ika north east local government area following information where he was promptly arrested. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The statement said: “On the 19/3/2022 at about 0600hrs, Safe Delta patrol team stationed along Umutu/Obiaruku Abraka road, received an information that one unregistered Lifan ladies motorcycle parked in the compound of the complainant (name withheld) has been stolen by unknown persons. “The team embarked on intensive stop and search and on 20/3/2022 at about 1030hrs, information was received that the suspect was sighted moving towards Umunede, he was trailed to Umunede where the suspect named: Nzubechi Emeka ‘m’, 27yrs from Egbema LGA of Imo State was arrested and upon interrogation, he confessed to the crime. The motorcycle was recovered and Investigation is ongoing.” Meanwhile, the police also said it rescued a 22-year-old victim who was abducted on midnight of March 20, 2022, locked in the boot of his RX 350 car silver in colour with Reg. No. ASB 124 HK by four armed men and whisked away. The hoodlums reportedly drove the victim towards Ughelli in Ughelli North Local Government Area of the state. On receiving the information, operatives of Dragon Patrol Teams 27, 28, 19, 20, and 16, acting on a tip-off, trailed the kidnappers to popular PTI junction, Effurun, where the hoodlums, on sighting the police, abandoned the victim in the vehicle and fled. DSP Edafe noted that further investigation was on to apprehend the fleeing kidnap suspects. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details