It has been observed that Nigeria is facing a lot of problems including those in the environment sector. These problems have been hinged on a deficit in leadership. In response to this, the Child Health and Environment Safety Trust (CHEST) has held leadership development training for secondary schools with the aim of grooming young minds on the concept of leadership and its key principles. “We are of the opinion that catching them young and Building leadership structures among our children will help in a very long way to address this deficit,” the founder of CHEST, Professor Godson Ana, said. The training tagged ‘Leadership Deficit In Nigeria: What Is The Panacea?’ was held recently at Immanuel College High School, Ibadan, Oyo State. Students were taught topics like “Understanding the causes and effects of leadership deficit in Nigeria” and “Understanding the causes and effects of leadership deficit in Nigeria.” “The structure we want to put in place is that leadership in any country is highly dependent on having a critical mass of people that are knowledgeable about a number of things. Leadership is not a venture that should be approached by people that are not knowledgeable. “So the structure we are talking about is the knowledge capital that is requried, the rudiments of leadership that is required. “We want to put in place a new generation of leaders with the requisite knowledge, the passion, the drive and are interested in impacting the society positively.” In addition, Professor Ana noted that “without good leadership, the environment sector will suffer.” Oluwaseyi Ndoh, a facilitator at the event and member of Building Nations Initiative, said BNI was partnering with CHEST to raise a mindset of leadership among the upcoming generation. “We are building a crop of young people who understand the importance of being able to lead themselves first before they are able to lead other people.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details