Tragedy struck over the weekend, as suspected armed bandits reportedly killed four persons and injured several others during an evening raid at Ladeowo area, Omi-Adio in Ido local government area of Oyo State. Tribune Online gathered that suspected bandits stormed the community in motorbikes and successfully raided the outlets of the operators of the Point of Sales (POS) machines in the area on Friday evening. The raid which left in its trail the death of four persons including residents and motorcyclists otherwise known as okada riders lasted a few hours. Our source revealed that business and other activities were paralysed during the period that the raid lasted as residents and other road users in the area scampered for safety. The suspected bandits in a bid to escape arrest and made away with their loots were shooting sporadically into the air to scare the people in the neighbourhood. It was during an indiscriminate shooting, according to our source that four people were felled by the bullets while several others were injured. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso in a text message forwarded to our investigation said the investigation is still ongoing on the matter. The text reads, “Investigations are ongoing, updates would be provided in due course, please.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details