IN the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. The Holy Qur’an, Muhammad 47:20-26 says, “Those who believe say, ‘Why is not a Sura sent down (for us)?’ But when a Sura of basic or categorical meaning is revealed, and fighting is mentioned therein, thou wilt see those in whose hearts is a disease looking at thee with a look of one in swoon at the approach of death. But more fitting for them were it to obey and say what is just, and when a matter is resolved on it were best for them if they were true to God. Then, is it to be expected of you if ye were put in authority that ye will do mischief in the land, and break your ties of kith and kin? Such are the men whom God has cursed for He has made them deaf and blinded their sight. Do they not then earnestly seek to understand the Qur’an, or are their hearts locked up by them? Those who turn back as apostates after guidance was clearly shown to them, the evil one has instigated them and buoyed them up with false hopes. This, because they said to those who hate what God has revealed, ‘We will obey you in part of (this) matter’; but God knows their (inner) secrets”. Another miracle (Mu’jiza) of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) was his pursuit by Suraqah bin Malik ibn Ju’shum al-Kinani, a member of the Kenanah tribe which, like Quraish, belongs to the Adnani branch of Arabs. He was a skilled horseman, known for being the only man from Quraish to successfully locate Prophet Muhammad (SAW) and Abu Bakr during their migration (Hijra) to Madinah, hoping to win the bounty that the Quraish had put on their heads. He witnessed a miraculous, divine force that stopped him in his tracks before he succeeded in this mission. He later converted to Islam. The Quraish had announced a reward of 100 camels for anyone who tracked Prophet Muhammad (SAW) and Abu Bakr. Suraqah was enticed by the rewards of 100 camels. Suraqah bin Malik was a clever and patient tracker who trailed people by their footprints on the sand, the excreta of the camels and horses. He asked his slave woman to saddle securely his agile mare and lead her well away from Makkah while he slipped out the back door of his house so that no one would know what he was about to do. He easily tracked down the two-man caravan of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) on its journey to Madinah but as soon as he caught sight of the duo, Muhammad made the following prayer, “O Allah, protect us from him by whatever means You will.” As a result, his mare got stuck in the sand and nothing could extricate her. The Prophet and Abu Bakr were visible within range of his arrow, but as he lifted his bow to shoot them, his hands became paralysed. He cried out, “O Muhammad, pray for me in order that my mare could get out of this mess. I promise I will retrace my steps and give up the pursuit.” In the narration of Ahmad, Suraqah said, “O Muhammad, I know that this is because of you; pray to Allah to save me from my predicament, and by Allah, I shall divert away from you anyone who is behind me of those who are seeking you. Here is my quiver, take one arrow. You are going to pass by some camels and sheep of mine in such and such a place, take whatever you need from there.” Muhammad said, “I have no need of it.” Then he prayed for him as requested. After he prayed for him, Suraqah’s mare freed herself from the sand. Such was the size of the reward, however, that Suraqah went back on his word and resumed pursuit of the duo. As he approached Muhammad, the mare got stuck into the sand again. Suraqah again prayed: “O Prophet, if I was released again, I would surrender my arms and return to Mecca never to pursue you. I would dissuade even others from pursuing you.” Prophet Muhammad (SAW) prayed again, and the mare again freed herself. Suraqah then declared that Muhammad’s religion would prevail one day and requested Muhammad to hand him a written promise that he would be honoured whenever Muhammad became the head of the Islamic state. Abu Bakr wrote the promise at the behest of Muhammad on a bone and handed it over to Suraqah. Even as he began to return, Prophet Muhammad (SAW) told him that he would one day wear the bracelets of Khusrow II of Persia. He asked in wonderment if Muhammad meant the bracelets of Khusrow bin Hormuz (or Khosrow II, son of Hormizd IV), the Persian king. Muhammad (SAW) nodded in acknowledgment. Suraqah encountered several contingents of Quraish who were looking for Muhammad and persuaded them to get back to Makkah as he had found no trace of the pair on the route to Madinah. The only person whom he told of his encounter was Abu Jahl, who reproached him for his cowardice. Within eight years of his migration to Madinah, Prophet Muhammad (SAW) entered Makkah as the head of a vast army and declared a general amnesty. Suraqah entered the court of Prophet Muhammad (SAW) and declared shahadah (testimony of faith). Suraqa always rued the day he pursued Prophet Muhammad (SAW) for the reward of 100 red camels. He was struck with profound grief the day Muhammad died but remembered the promise of Muhammad that he would one day receive the bangles of Khosrow II of Persia. May Almighty Allah continue to make us triumph over our enemies, as done for Prophet Muhammad (SAW). Ameen.    ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.