A non-governmental organisation (NGO), AfricHer Rising, has charged African women to aspire for excellence in their work and also to aspire for leadership positions anywhere they find themselves. The founder of the organisation, Ifeoluwa Oyatokun, made this known during a virtual conference tagged ‘Break the Bias: Leadership is Feminine’, which was in commemoration of women’s month. Oyatokun noted that a platform like AfricHer Rising aims to intellectually stimulate and create the expectation of a better Africa in the minds of youths/young women by offering them the ability to nurture and birth a vision, and perfecting physical and mental attractiveness to attain excellence. “Leadership is Feminine’ is about femininity expectations that are found in leadership and that we as women can use as an edge in our leadership positions,” she said. “You cannot demand from people what you have not trained them to deliver.” Oyatokun enjoined women to strive to replicate the success they have accrued in their businesses and careers in governance, if not what they do may mean very little. A life coach and financial analyst with Goldman Sacs, United kingdom, Mosinmiloluwa Koye-Ladele, delivered a lecture titled ‘The physical and mental attractiveness of a leader’. She talked about slaying as a woman leader by using the ‘inside out’ and the ‘outside in’ strategies. Koye-Ladele noted that the ‘inside out’ of a woman is about her mental attractiveness, adding that “to be a successful female leader, one needs consistency and competence, and to work on their insecurities and emotional intelligence.” On the other hand, she noted that the ‘Outside in’ entails appearance. “Dressing is communication. Your presence and aura need to be felt. Your physical appearance needs to complement your mindset,” she said. A business bank manager for Lloyds Banking Group, United Kingdom, Robina Burke, delivered a lecture titled ‘Climbing the corporate ladder as a black woman’. Burke stated that leadership is from within and pointed out the three steps to be taken in order to be a successful leader: articulation of vision, smartness, and persistence. She concluded by stating that a woman can achieve whatever she dreams as long as she can pay attention and listen. An emotional intelligence coach, Greatness Tolulope Olorunfemi, delivered a lecture titled ‘Emotional intelligence as an edge for women in leadership’. She talked about taking responsibility for one’s feelings and managing it. “Healthy leadership is reproductive, just like a woman. She is intuitive, confident and in control of her emotions,” Olorunfemi said. Some of the prominent women at the conference include Fatima Hassan, former special adviser to the governor of Oyo State; Christiana Adebiyi, Tiwatope Oyewole, Ifeoluwa Adekanla, Mojisola Talks, among others. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team