The future of Nigeria will be the focus on Tuesday as eminent Nigerians meet to propose objective course of action. From minister to former governors and opinion leaders, the deliberation will focus on “ensuring that Nigeria takes its rightful place in the comity of nations”. Freedom Online, one of Nigeria’s fastest-growing online newspapers, will host these eminent Nigerians at its fourth annual lecture at Radisson Blu Hotel, Ikeja. A statement by the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Gabriel Akinadewo, says the Guest Speaker is Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. Former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, will chair the session, while the Keynote Speaker is former Governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel. Former Anambra State Governor, Mr. Peter Obi, is the Special Guest Speaker while former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, is the Special Guest of Honour. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Other guests to grace the occasion include former Police Affairs Minister, Navy Captain Omoniyi Olubolade (rtd); the immediate past Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside; Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams;  the President and Chairman of Governing Council,  Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Mallam Mukhtar Zubairu Sirajo;   Prof. Akin Onigbinde and others. The statement by Akinadewo says the lecture is an annual event “that brings together captains of industry, media chiefs, politicians and professionals to reflect on national issues and propose objective course of action. We have always been forthright on matters of Nigeria’s progress and future. “Since the first edition of our annual lecture, we have been inspired by the commitment of our guests and Nigerians in the quest for a better country through advocacy. We believe this time around, the same zeal will be deployed to ensuring that Nigeria takes its rightful place in the comity of nations”.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team