Governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari’s choice for the position of the national chairman of the ruling party. Chairman of the APC’s Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, disclosed this to correspondents after a meeting of the governors with the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said the meeting was to brief the President on the zoning of party offices while the zones also updated him on their efforts to generate consensus in their areas. He said: “Today we all briefed Mr President on that. Of course, included in that is the issue of distributing political party offices to the respective zones and our support for Mr President’s endorsement of the candidate for the National Chairman of the party. “And the various geo-political zones took turns to brief Mr President, on what they have been doing to generate consensus in their respective zones amongst the National Working Committee and zonal party positions that have been either allocated to the zones or which the zones are entitled to. “Most of the zones have been allocated National Working Committee positions that are fewer than the number of states, but however, there are zonal executive committees from which the zones are working to produce a consensus list. “So, this afternoon, the respective zones; Governor Abubakar Bello on behalf of the North-Central; His Excellency, Governor Babagana Zulum, on behalf of the Northeast; His Excellency, Governor Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State on behalf of Northwest; His Excellency, Governor Dave Umahi, on behalf of Southeast. Governor Kayode Fayemi briefed the President on the Southwest. I further mentioned the position of the South-South to Mr President, as I had on paper. “So, Mr President appreciated the briefing and restated his gratitude for the work the governors have been doing in support for in support of the party and preparation for the National Convention.” Bagudu noted that the APC as a democratic party will encourage consensus in the distribution of party offices along the line already approved by the party’s national leadership. He added: “Our party is a democratic party, we will always urge consensus, we’ll urge respect for the decisions of the party because the distribution of political party offices here has been approved by the highest organ of the party, which is the National Caretaker Committee because they were acting in their capacity as the National Executive Committee of the party. But where people still choose to go against the grain, whatever the party constitution allows them, because we wouldn’t do anything on undemocratic. “Mr President has always urged consensus for all positions because consensus is in accordance with the democratic tenets and once you have leaders who are established, who are working towards the same goal, yes, we might have our individual differences, like was once carefully explained by Governor El-Rufai, but on the principle of ensuring that we get leadership that will hit the ground running, we are united, and to that extent, who will support any process that will lead to consensus and the emergence of leaders without the need for an election.” The PGF boss affirmed that governors in the party are united and in support of the desires of President Buhari, noting therefore that he does not expect any surprises at the next weekend’s national convention. Asked whether there could be surprises, Bagudu responded: “No, the governors are united. The governors are unanimous in support of Mr President. The governors are unanimous in the support of the caretaker committee. We have to thank the Caretaker Committee for what they have been doing. “Naturally, there will be hiccups one day, but we have overcome them and we are a human organization, which is bound sometimes to generate emotions and anxiety, but we are united and unanimous and by God’s grace, we’ll have a very successful and peaceful National Convention.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…APC governors endorse Buhari’s  APC governors endorse Buhari’s Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…APC governors endorse Buhari’s  APC governors endorse Buhari’s ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details