No fewer than about 100 armed bandits lost their lives during a gun duel with the Joint Security Task Force in Bangi village, of Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State on Wednesday. Authorities of the State Police Command confirmed the killings of about 100 bandits by the Joint Security Task Force in Bangi village of Mariga Local Government Area of the state while speaking through the Commissioner of Police, Niger State Command, Mr Bala Monday Kuryas during an interactive session with the newsmen on Thursday in Minna. The Police Boss informed journalists on Thursday in Minna that the bandits were neutralised on Wednesday, while some of the hoodlums escaped with various gunshots injuries during the operations, saying, “We also recovered sixty-one motorcycles”. CP Kuryas said, “We appeal to rural dwellers not to hesitate to report to the nearest security outfits any person or group of persons with gunshots injuries for security action. According to him, “We have put in place sensitive security measures that will deal with any unforeseen circumstances in our area of supervision. All we require from members of the public is vital information that could help our personnel on the ground to deal with any form of security threats.” Meanwhile, the Niger State Government has commended the State’s Joint Taskforce on Thursday for demonstrating a high sense of professionalism during the gun battle encounter with the armed bandits in Bangi village. The Chairman, Joint Security Taskforce and Commissioner for Local Government, and Chieftaincy Affairs, and Internal Security, Mr Emmanuel Umar told Tribune Online in an interview by telephone on Wednesday. Umar, said, that several bandits escaped with gunshots injuries during the operation, stressing that “We are really making progress in the ongoing fight against banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling and other criminal elements in our state. “The exchange of gunfire between the gunmen suspected to be terrorist elements and the Joint Security Task Force and vigilante outfits led to the killings of several bandits. “We also recovered over 61 motorcycles during the operation,” he stated. The Commissioner however expressed regrets that one security personnel died during the bloody operation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity