Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, recently ordered by the court to vacate his post for defecting to the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Wednesday, denied that he has abandoned his ambition to secure the presidential ticket of the ruling party in next year’s election. Speaking to correspondents shortly before joining his colleagues for a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, he also said that he is not worried about the court judgement, which he said was the design of God to enable him to reach where he had not previously reached during his consultation. Asked whether his presidential ambition has died, he said: “It could be just your own imagination because there is no such thing. You can see us in the various media houses, you know, social media. You can see my supporters everywhere, you can see my consultation. “I even consult those who are also aspiring. And that shows you how committed I am to this course and I think it’s God’s project. So, there is no such thing. Whatever is God’s project, no such consideration will come to such project.” The governor said he is not worried by the court’s decision, explaining that it goes contrary to the ruling of the Supreme Court on who owns votes between the party and the candidate. He stated: “Do I look worried? You see, God has plans for everything. And I think that God allowed one court to give judgment that I go nowhere, allowed another court to say, because we defected, and the votes belong to the party. And I’m very worried because the highest court has said that votes belong to the candidates. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “And that’s why even though APC won the election in Bayelsa State, the deputy governor’s credentials were defective. And even a day to swearing-in, the Supreme Court ruled disqualifying the candidate of APC that won the election because of his deputy. And so, if votes inputs belonged to the party, it would have been that the Supreme Court in their wisdom would have just asked for the man that won the election for the party to bring the substitutes to do that. “So I’m not worried. Because in the first place, there is no constitutional provision that says that the governor can be sued in the first place. So, I’m not sue-able. You know, but a court judgment is a court judgment. I’m not interpreting it but the Constitution, we swore to uphold, I can speak to the constitution. “And the Constitution says that you will, once you’re elected, you enjoy immunity. As Supreme Court says votes cast in an election belong to the candidates. And that’s why you have qualifications of a candidate and no qualifications of a political party. So I’m not worried. “But God allowed it so that where I couldn’t reach in terms of my consultation, this situation has made it possible for me to reach those places. And to truly see that Nigerians, love me and they want me and that is the reason for that. “And I want to thank the PDP and even the man that boasted that he did that hatchet job. “If the people that crucified Christ knew that it will bring salvation to the whole world, they wouldn’t have done that. “So, the hatchet man that boasted is likened to Judas Iscariot. And so, I have no worry because the Constitution is clear. I have confidence in the judiciary and so, you can see I have added some weight in these few days and looking more handsome.” Speaking about the unnamed state governor who he accused of being behind his legal travail, he said: “Probably the difference between us will be our faith. I serve the living God and probably a lot of alcohol. I don’t drink. So, that is the difference between us. Otherwise, he remains my friend and my brother and I have nothing against him.” When asked to name the governor he referenced, Umahi added: “You should be the one telling me. You heard him on Channels boasting that he is behind. A mere man that depends on the breath of God. I pity illiteracy. It’s a shame. You are boosting to remove another governor. “What qualifies you just because you’re packing money that is the public fund? Not intellectual material but by just packing money from public funds and you are boasting about it. Otherwise, who were you? “I became a billionaire at the age of 25. I’ve worked all my life and I have asked him to go for public debates. “I do not commission 3.4-kilometre road. I commission 35-kilometre roads. I commissioned twin flyovers running to one kilometre. I commission megaprojects with little resources. “So, if he says he has done well and he is Mr this or that, let him come for public debate with me. Let’s start with our childhoods. So I’m not disturbed.” Governor Umahi disclosed that he met President Buhari over the plan for his visit to Ebonyi State to commission some projects. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs I have not dropped out of presidential race under APC ― Umahi Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa I have not dropped out of presidential race under APC ― Umahi I have not dropped out of presidential race under APC ― Umahi ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details