The newly-elected National Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Betta Edu, has assured the people of her willingness to work in close ties with her opponent during the contest, the former Director-General, Women Development Centre, Mary Ekpere, to uplift APC to an enviable pedestal. Dr Edu gave the assurance while speaking in a discussion with our correspondent in Calabar on Tuesday, shortly after the former DG, Women Development Centre Mary Ekpere played host to her after the convention. She said she would maintain an open-door policy where every woman, irrespective of her age, religion and ethnic background, would be carried along. “I must congratulate all the Nigerian women who stood by me to the extent that some stepped down to pave way for my emergence. “I shall do everything within my reach to ensure that every woman is carried along. Let me also thank another party stakeholder in Cross River State, High Chief Higgins Peters and other men of integrity for all the support,” Edu said. Also Speaking, the former DG Women Development Centre, Mary Ekpere lauded Dr Edu for the stride, promising to work with Edu towards the development of the party. Mrs Mary Ekpere who was a top contender for the position of APC National Women Leader at the national convention, but withdrew from the race in the interest of the party said, “As a party person interest of the party is bigger than my personal interest. We will work together, to take the party to greater heights.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details