Educational materials worth over N60m are to be distributed to a total of 7000 orphans and vulnerable children across primary schools in Bauchi State by the state government. The disclosure was made on Thursday by the Executive Chairperson of Bauchi State Orphans and Vulnerable Children Commission (BASOVCA), Hajiya Yelwa Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, while flagging off the distribution of the materials at the Secretariat of Bauchi LGA. She explained that in Bauchi LGA, 500 of such children have been selected from the various primary schools to benefit from the scheme which she said is a continuous exercise. The BASOVCA EC added that the Scheme is aimed at ensuring that the children who are orphans and vulnerable did not feel outcast but encouraged to face their academic pursuits unhindered. Yelwa Abubakar Tafawa Balewa added that the essence of her Commission is to cater for the well being of all identified orphans and vulnerable children anywhere they are found in the state because according to her, being orphans and vulnerable should not be a hindrance to their existence. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She then warned that any official caught diverting the materials to private use will be summarily dealt with in accordance with all relevant civil service laws and regulations. While receiving the materials on behalf of the LGA Education department, the Council Chairman, Babamaaji Abubakar, commended BASOVCA for the gesture saying that it will go a long way in complementing what the Council is doing to boost education. Represented by his Deputy, Salisu Yakubu Zungur, the Council Chairman emphasized that primary education is the right of every child no matter his/her status stressing that it is the foundation of life that must not be toyed with. He disclosed that his Council has done a lot in the last one year in ensuring that primary education got the required attention adding that education generally is the topmost priority of his administration. The Council Chairman then assured that the materials as presented to the Council will be distributed to the affected primary schools across the LGA warning that his Council will not tolerate diversion by any official of the Council involved in the distribution. The educational materials include school bags, uniforms, exercise books, pencils, lunch boxes, face masks, sucks and other materials that will make learning conducive for the children. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 7000 orphans, vulnerable children get free educational materials worth over N60m from BASOVCA Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 7000 orphans, vulnerable children get free educational materials worth over N60m from BASOVCA ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity