Security personnel has reportedly beaten a 69-year-old man, Philip Ajayi to death over the inability of the deceased to refund his N7000. The deceased, an electrical rewinder was said to have failed to repair a radio tape brought to him by the security man while the security man descended on him, beating him to a pulp before leaving the shop. According to an eyewitness, Mrs Osunyinka Akintokunbo explained that the deceased was hale and hearty before he was beaten to death by the security man, saying the security officer was a regular customer of the deceased. She said the “the security man visited the shop as usual and approached Odua for the refund of his money, but the deceased explained to him that his work was almost done, remaining the missing cable. “Despite the deceased’s explanations, the soldier laid him down and put his leg on his chest and punched severally before leaving his shop. She said the deceased was seen crying and called for help from one of his apprentices to bring the missing cables in order to fix the radio of the security man. He however said “but the man died vomiting blood after complaining of pain and before they could rush him to the hospital for treatment. He said the corpse of the deceased has been deposited at the UNIMED Teaching Hospital morgue in Akure. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO), Mrs Fumilayo Odunlami, who confirmed the incident, said the command has not been briefed. He said the details and identity of the acclaimed security man had not been ascertained but said investigation has commenced immediately to know the identity of the soldier and arrest him, so he could face the wrath of the law. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity