For the fourth consecutive session, equities trading at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) maintained the downward trend as the All-Share Index (ASI) closed 0.20 per cent weaker to close at 47,156.56 basis points on Tuesday. Selloffs in bellwether stock, Nestle Nigeria drove the market into the red having shed 2.79 per cent from its value. In addition, United Bank for Africa, Guaranty Trust Holding Company, Wapco and Zenith Bank lost 1.94 per cent, 0.57 per cent, 1.25 per cent and 0.19 per cent from the value of their respective shares. Accordingly, the Month-to-Date and Year-to-Date return moderated to -0.5 per cent and +10.4 per cent, respectively. Meanwhile, investors further lost N51.40 billion as the market capitalisation settled at N25.41 trillion at the end of the day trading activities. Market breadth closed negative as 27 tickers lost relative to 16 gainers. On the performance chart, Japaul Gold led twenty-eight others on the laggard’s table having lost 8.82 per cent from its share value, while NPF Microfinance Bank topped 15 others on the gainer’s log after its share value appreciated by 9.52 per cent. Performance across sectors was negative, as the Consumer Goods, Insurance, Oil & Gas, Banking and Industrial Goods indices printed losses having depreciated by 1.6 per cent, 1.4 per cent, 1.0 per cent, 0.4 per cent and 0.1 per cent. Analysis of today’s market activities showed trade turnover settled higher relative to the previous session, with the value of transactions declining by 45.87 per cent. A total of 303.48 million shares valued at N3.90 billion were exchanged in 4,616 deals. For the second consecutive session, Access Bank led the volume chart with 44.15 million units traded, while Zenith Bank led the value chart in deals worth N758.01 million. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details