A coalition of no fewer than six Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) working in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) have expressed anxiety over low-level hygiene and sanitary measures and blamed it largely on poor water distribution and management. Addressing residents on Tuesday, during a sensitization tour as Akwa Ibom joined in marking world water day, stakeholders in the sector commended Governor Udom Emmanuel over the executive bill on water reforms in the state and stressed the need for improvement as “only one per cent is allocated to water”. Speaking to newsmen, Prof. Gabriel Umoh, Executive Director, African Human Development Centre (AHDC), outlined challenges facing the sector and hoped the water bill sent to the House of Assembly by governor Emmanuel, would cushion some of the problems for effective water engineering in the state. He, therefore, charged the lawmakers to expedite action towards passing the bill into law in order to guarantee proper management of water in the state. He explained that the sensitization campaign entitled; “Groundwater: making the invisible visible”, aimed at drawing government and stakeholders in the sector to the implementation of water policy towards enhancing what he described as Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in the society. The Commissioner for Women Affairs, Dr Ini Adiakpan, lamented the sufferings experienced by women and girls in the process of having access to clean water, saying such problem could be curbed with an effective water policy that would guarantee water availability for all. Adiakpan, who was represented by Mrs Nkechi Udo, noted that girls and women face challenges of rape, kidnapping and other physical attacks in the process of going long distances in search of water. Besides, she noted that girls are confronted with the big challenge of proper sanitation during their monthly flows in schools as well as open defecation that could lead to outbreaks of an epidemic in schools. In the same vein, Mr Umoh Ekwere, National Vice President, Borehole Drillers Association of Nigeria (BDAN) and Mr Koko Udo, Society for Water Sanitation (SWS), stressed the for effective reforms in the sector to enhance safety and proper water engineering and distribution in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details