Seplat Energy Plc, a leading indigenous energy company, has called for a technology-based education curriculum to fast track Nigeria’s development and position it among the comity of advanced countries. The company, in conjunction with its partners, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), awarded certificates to a total of 220 comprising 214 teachers and 6 Chief Inspectors of Education in Edo and Delta States, who have successfully participated in the under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP). The participants received their certificates in Benin City, Edo State capital, on Thursday at the second edition of STEP, a programme designed to assist in improving the standard of education in Nigeria, especially in the Seplat Energy’s host states and communities. The STEP Certificate Awards Ceremony took place alongside the Seplat Education Roundtable, otherwise known as the Seplat JV Education Roundtable, and had the theme: “Harnessing the Role of Technology In Nigeria’s Education Sector.” The roundtable had educational experts and professionals in a highly engaging panel session, just as the keynote address was presented by Professor Fabian Ajogwu SAN, an Independent Non-Executive Director at Seplat Energy. Presenting the keynote address, Professor. Ajogwu reiterated the importance of teachers as those who beget the future, and as such must be well trained and motivated for them to deliver the best. While commending Seplat for the TEP initiative, the senior lawyer and university don, said: “Education is a collective responsibility. What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta States Governments. These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporate bodies should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us more future returns than subsiding consumption.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part in that cost. The government has a role to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders. We should acknowledge this cost and invest in it” Education has a cost that someone must bear. What should be avoided is to leave in the denial that education is free. There is nothing like free education because someone must write the cheque and Seplat Energy has written the cheque,” Ajogwu added. He pointed out the gap between schools in the rural areas and those in the urban centres, adding that the removal of such gap “is very important for the nation’s educational system and it is important for Nigeria to harness its technology and bridge the gap between Nigeria and the developed nations.” Also speaking at the event, Edo State deputy governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, commended Seplat for the STEP initiative and urged the beneficiaries to make the, best use of the opportunity, reiterating that Eo State placed much premium on the teaching profession as “our teachers are our pride and the future of the nation.” According to the Edo State deputy governor, “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.” In her opening remarks, Seplat’s Director, External Affairs and Sustainability, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, said: “The STEP programme is important because it plays a key role in the socio-economic growth of the country. It supports the attainment of Quality education which is #SGD4. The objective is to take STEAM education to the teachers. We encourage the teachers to transmit their experience with this programme to other colleagues in the sector and the students who are Nigeria’s future”. “Seplat Energy takes the STEP initiative seriously. This year we have trained over 200 teachers and state CIEs. The programme is designed to ensure monitoring and evaluation of the teachers even after the training and graduation. This ensures sustainability of the programme,” she added. Nwachukwu explained that over the years, Seplat Energy had made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country. She added that to consolidate its achievements on the Sustainability Development Goal for inclusive and equitable quality education, the company introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers. In her remarks, the Edo State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Oviawe said the State was thrilled to partner with Seplat Energy on education, adding that: “We are excited by what Seplat Energy is doing for teachers and thank the company for its CSR impact in the educational sector and other sectors. Edo state is taking the lead in technology intervention in education in Nigeria with initiatives like this and the EdoBEST programme”. The Minister of State for Education, Dr. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, one of the Special guests of honour, was represented by Mrs. Muna Onuzo-Adetona, a Special Adviser to the minister. The panelists comprised Mr. Yinka Akibu of the United Nations Development Programme; Mr. Kehinde Osinaike of the Federal Ministry of Education; Sijuade Idowu Tiamiyu of the State Universal Basic Education Board Lagos State; and Ini Abimbola of the Association of Sustainability Professionals of Nigeria. The session was moderated by Dr. Mories Atoki. STEP, an annual programme, started with a five-day residential workshop which provided leadership and self-improvement training, training on Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics, STEAM, modules and its application to teaching. The teachers were also provided with STEAM gadgets and Apps to support their delivery of quality teaching in the company’s host states. Of the teachers empowered, 75% are from public schools while 25% are from private schools. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team