Following the mounting security challenges in virtually all parts of Nigeria, a frontline Presidential aspirant under the Accord Party, in the 2023 general elections, Solomon Uchenna Wining, said he is worried about the hopeless security situation in the country and the dangers the citizens have had to pass through, calling on President Mohammadu Buhari’s led Federal Government to find a lasting solution to the problem. In a statement from the head of his 2023 campaign media team, Nze Nweke Nweke, the aspirant, said he was deeply touched by the recent terrorist attacks on a train conveying passengers from Abuja to Kaduna State, if the unfortunate development was not checked, the attacks could continue thereby frightening passengers and giving the wrong notion that travelling by train in the country was unsafe. He said that the incident could also affect commercial activities and appealed to security agencies to arrest the ugly development before it gets out of hand. Dr. Wining assured that the security of lives and property will be one of the top priority areas of his administration if he is given the mandate to rule the country come 2023. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He blamed the nation’s current leaders for failing to address the spate of unemployment, especially among youths, noting that the failure to include a good number of the youths in the governance across the country, was partly responsible for heightened insecurity in the country, especially as being witnessed today. “I am faced with sleepless nights. Each time I think of what Nigerians face while on transit daily. In the Southeast, there are cases of killings, in the northern part of the country, there is banditry while Westerners are menaced by herders. I expect the present administration to adopt possible means of guaranteeing the safety of the citizenry instead of constantly making mindless excuses and propaganda,” he said. The Accord Presidential hopeful condoled the families that lost their loved ones during the attack and prayed to God to console the affected families even as he called on the government to compensate the affected families while tasking the security agencies to brace up in the task of providing security for the lives and property of every Nigerian.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details