The Military High Command, on Thursday, disclosed that a total of 47,975 terrorists and their families surrendered to troops in the North East from September 2021 to date. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj-Gen Bernard Onyeuko, disclosed this in Abuja while updating Defence Correspondents on military operations between March 10 and March 24, in various theatres of operations across the six geo-political zones of the country. He pointed out that the achievement of the military within the period included the killing of 17 terrorists, arrest of 35, recovery of 34 AK-47, five dane guns and nine locally-made guns. The DDMO who was in company of the Director of Defence Information (DDI) Maj. Gen OJ Akpor, added that the troops also recovered 270 rustled cows, three motorcycles and 13 bicycles being used by the terrorists for movement. According to him, while 7,000 Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram terrorists from different locations surrendered, troops also rescued 27 civilians in the last two weeks. “The surrendered terrorists have been profiled, while rescued civilians and recovered items were handed over to appropriate authorities for further action,” he said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Speaking on Operation Hadarin Daji, Gen Onyeuko explained that the Air Component carried out air interdiction on March 14 at Unguwar Adam village in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State, killing more than 27 bandits. He said the air raid was sequel to an intelligence report about the gathering of more than 50 terrorists for meeting their key commanders and leaders. He said that during the operation, one Malam Sule, a brother to the notorious bandit, Lalbi Ginshima, was among those that were killed, which was a major setback for the group. He further added that scores of terrorists were also killed in another air interdiction carried out at a terrorist enclave at Magaba in Kaduna State, adding that those fleeing were trailed and mopped up by ground troops. He said troops also neutralised eight bandits, arrested seven, rescued 56 victims and recovered arms and other equipment in other operations during the period. On the activities of Operation Safe Haven, the DDMO said that the troops recovered several stolen railway sleepers, three trucks, one J5 bus, two AK47 rifles with extra magazines during operations within their area of responsibility.eIn addition, he said the troops also rescued three civilian victims, neutralised two bandits and apprehended 19 others, who he said was handed over to appropriate authorities for further action. In Operation Whirl Stroke, Onyeuko said that troops eliminated no fewer than 10 bandits, arrested five, recovered vehicles and different types of weapons during the period. According to him, troops have continued to carry out operations against terrorists, bandits and other enemies of the state and have remained committed to all operational engagements “While the security situation in some locations remained peaceful and calm, some other areas recorded some incidents within the period.” He said that all arrested criminal elements and weapons recovered from them have been handled over to the appropriate agencies for further action. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details