Worried by the latest security breach at the Kaduna airport, the House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to through the office of the National Security Adviser, (NSA), the Chief of Defense Staff, the Inspector-General of Police and heads of other security agencies to holistically intervene by setting up a special security task force (SSTF) on airports across the country. This came just as the lower chamber has summoned the Heads of Security Agencies, Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika and the heads of aviation agencies for a meeting with the House leadership and the chairmen of relevant committees of the House of Representatives on the recent security breach at the Kaduna International Airport. The House took the decision after adopting the motion of Urgent National Importance, titled, ‘Urgent Need for The Federal Government Investigate The Recent Banditry Attack at Kaduna International Airport And Reinforce Security Surveillance and Personnel in All The Nigerian Airports’ sponsored by Honourable Nnolim Nnaji, the Chairman of House of Representatives Committee on Aviation. The House further directed the Federal Ministry of Aviation, Federal Airports of Nigeria, (FAAN) security and other security agencies to come up with a more proactive measure in securing the airports including providing modern security surveillance equipment on the perimeter fences in all airports. Presenting the motion earlier, the Chairman of the House, Honourable Nnolim Nnaji told the colleagues how about a year ago, armed bandits attacked the staff quarters of FAAN at the same Kaduna airport and abducted about twelve persons. He equally noted that just last Friday, March 25, 2022, another horrific armed banditry attack was unleashed at the airport resulting in the death of a security guard of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). Honourable Nnaji acknowledged the swift intervention of the military and other security agencies who confronted the heavily armed bandits numbering over a hundred adding that their gallantry saved the situation. The Aviation Committee Chairman said he was concerned that the attack on Kaduna Airports might escalate to other airports if urgent measures were not taken to safeguard the nation’s aerodromes.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details