Popular Nigerian actor, content creator and activist, popularly known by his stage name, Mr. Macaroni has joined other distinguished citizens and celebrities to become a GoNigeria ambassador. The GoNigeria advocacy campaign for effective youth participation in the country’s electoral process continues to gain momentum every day. Initiated by Anap Foundation, GoNigeria aims to sensitize Nigerian youths to participate in the electoral process with an eye on the 2023 General Elections. GoAmbassadors are celebrities and outstanding people in various endeavours that include the arts, sciences, entertainment, accomplished professionals, performing artists, sport persons, innovators and social advocates, who have all bought into the GoNigeria initiative and utilise their own works, statements etc. to deepen the conversation on the very important national priority of tackling voter apathy between now and the 2023 General Elections. Mr. Macaroni, who is best known for his acting prowess and his engaging social media presence via comedy skits created by him, doubles as a conscientious activist. In recent times he has been been involved in activism through his creative works, where he mirrors the state of the nation through satire and encourages youths to be actively involved in politics by picking up their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) in preparation for the forthcoming 2023 elections. Anap Foundation has been partnering with celebrities who have an appreciable fans base on social media and also have a strong influence on young people through what they do and who they are. The overall aim is to encourage Nigerian youths to register and vote en-masse in the 2023 General Elections. GoNigeria is an initiative of Anap Foundation, a non-profit organization which is committed to promote good governance. The 18 Initial Advocates of the GoNigeria Movement are drawn from all the 6 geopolitical zones (3 from each zone). They are: Atedo Peterside (Convener), Aisha Yesufu, Nuruddeen Lemu, Dike Chukwumerije, Folarin Falana (Falz), Bishop Matthew Hassan-Kukah, Arunma Oteh, Hamzat Lawal, Tomiwa Aladekomo, Osita Chidoka, Dr. Tony Rapu, ‘Yemi Adamolekun, Muhammad Ali Pate, HH Muhammad Sanusi II, Dr. Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman, Kashim Ibrahim-Imam, Ayisha Osori and Ibrahim Dahiru Waziri. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details