The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has denied reports going around in some sections of the media that he solicited financial support from Nigerians to enable the treatment of victims of the train attack on the Abuja-Kaduna rail route on Monday night. In a statement from the Director of Press in the Ministry of Transportation, Eric Ojiekwe said the reports were untrue. According to the statement, “the attention of the ministry has been drawn to the story carried by the Print media and other online platforms quoting the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, asking Nigerian people to liaise with the hospital management and see how much they can contribute to the treatment of the patients is false and a terrible misrepresentation. The notes that on the contrary, what the Minister said and we have it on record is: “I have said to the Nigerian Railway Corporation to liaise with the hospital management and see how much they can contribute to the treatment of the patients. “In light of the above, we urge the public to disregard these publications as it is not a representation of what the Minister said when he went to commiserate with the bomb blast victims at 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital and St. Gerald’s Catholic Hospital, both in Kaduna on March 30, 2022” the stated. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team