Equities trading at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) closed southward to halt previous days’ gains. Specifically, the benchmark index dipped by 0.26 per cent to settle at 47,360.79 basis points, thus dragging both the month-to-date and year-to-date performance of the All Share Index (ASI) to stand at -0.07 per cent and 10.87 per cent respectively. Investors, therefore, lost N66 billion in the session as the market capitalisation followed suit the direction of the ASI to stand at N25.525 trillion, a 0.26 per cent decrease from the N25.591 trillion it stood at the end of the previous trading session. Bears maintained dominance over the market breadth with 34 counters in the losers’ chart pitted against 15 counters in the gainers’ chart. Royal Exchange gained 10.00 per cent to become the best-performing stocks in the session, closely followed by Seplat, Multiverse, NEM Insurance and FCMB Group to complete the list of the top five gainers. Conversely, Niger Insurance shed the most weight to lead the laggards’ chart as it is flanked by International Breweries, RTBriscoe, NGX Group and Cornerstone Insurance to complete the top losers’ chart. Most Sectorial indices closed in the same direction with the ASI save for NGX Oil&Gas and NGX Insurance sectors that were up by 5.36 per cent and 1.32 per cent, while NGX Growth and NGX ASEM closed flat. Market activity as measured by both volume and value shed weight in the session with daily traded volume standing at 279.954 million units, representing a 24.45 per cent decrease from a volume of 370.543 million units traded in the previous session. The value of traded stocks dipped by 46.99 per cent in the session to stand at N4.163 billion as against a value of N7.853 billion recorded in the previous trading session. Transnational corporations dominated the volume charts as the top traded stock by volume for the trading session, followed by United Capital, Access Bank, Zenith Bank and FCMB Group to complete the list of the five most traded stocks by volume. With regards to the value of traded stocks, Seplat took the lead of the top five performers as well, flanked by Airtel Africa, Zenith Bank, NGX Group and United Capital. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.