The Founder of Al’Misriy Da’wah Foundation of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdulkabir Ibrahim Al’Misriy, has cautioned traders against the hike in the price of foodstuffs, fruits, beverages among other condiments as Muslims across the globe witness another Ramadan period soon. He gave the advice during his speech as the guest speaker at the inauguration of ‘NASRUL-LAHI-L-FATIH SOCIETY (NASFAT) Kaduna Group 1’ and Pre-Ramadan lecture titled, “What if this is my last Ramadan”, saying, it has become a culture for traders to increase their products’ price once the Ramadan period approaches. Shiekh Al’Misriy explained that the scared period is a time to seek God’s face through fasting, hence and charged all Muslims to take it seriously. He said, “Increase your benevolent acts, be generous with whatever you have, give out more and increase your charity. “Increase your Da’wah activities, this is an act of getting yourself involved in preaching or listening to Ramadan lectures organized in your community, it will increase your knowledge of Islamic deeds and injunctions. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “Every Muslim is enjoined to be reciting the Qur’an more than ever before during the period, those who cannot recite it are enjoined to use the period to start learning how to read it. “Maintaining and sustaining your piousness even after the Ramadan is the ultimate reason for fasting and its activities, refrain from evil vices and uphold at all times good deeds to your fellow human beings without discrimination,’’ he added. In his remarks, the Kaduna main branch Chairman, Alhaji Abdulganiyu Ajao, said the mission and vision statement of NASFAT is to ‘be a pacesetting Islamic organization with widespread acceptance’ and, ‘to develop an enlightened society nurtured by a true understanding of Islam for the spiritual upliftment and welfare of mankind.” Represented by Alhaji Akeem Adeniji, the Vice-Chairman, Ajao, however, noted that this cannot be totally achieved without a strategic and conscious approach for the society expansion through the creation of more branches, hence, the need for the Inauguration of NASFAT Kaduna Group 1. He said, “today, NASFAT has created more than 340 branches in Nigeria and across the Nigerian borders, like USA, Canada UK and other African countries among others.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team