The Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Abiodun Alabi, has warned policemen in the state against collecting money for bail, extrajudicial killing, extortion and other forms of unprofessionalism. The CP gave the warning on Monday during his tour of Areas G and H police formations in the state. The police boss warned that policemen should not use routine police checks on the road as a means of extorting money from residents of the state. CP Alabi said, “On no account must policemen under my watch must use stop and search to extort the public. “While carrying out your duty, you must not extort people because I will not tolerate abuse of human rights. Don’t ever be involved in unethical behaviour.” The police boss also added that “I also want to warn that bail is free. If you want to work under my command, you must not collect bail money from anyone. I mean it and I will deal with any officer who collects money for bail because it is free. “I also want to warn police officers not to dabble into civil cases and don’t criminalise civil cases. If you are handling the civil matter, please, advise the parties to go to court and seek redress. But make sure that you don’t detain people on civil matters.” He also warned that “Another area of great importance is the area of accidental discharge. I don’t want to hear it. There is no excuse for misusing your firearms. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Guide your arms jealously because if you misuse it, you will face the consequences of using your arms when you are not supposed to use it.” The Lagos CP also stated that “Finally, I want to still reemphasise that the police have banned the issuance tinted glass permit and it is the instruction of the Inspector-General of Police that policemen should stop requesting for tinted glass permit from motorists. If you are caught requesting for tinted glass permit from motorists, you will be dealt with.” He assured the policemen that “I want to let you know that the IGP is working assiduously for your welfare. He has successfully achieved the request for the increase in your salary and they are working out modalities for payment. “The IGP has also succeeded in making sure that your salaries are not taxed. The Federal Inland Revenue Service and others have been properly briefed on the matter.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details