Nigeria’s total debt stock rose to N39.556 trillion as of December 2021 and would continue to grow as the country borrows more from both domestic and foreign sources. This was disclosed by the Director-General of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha during an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja on Thursday. She said the country’s borrowing is utilised in financing the budget deficits, and other specific projects like infrastructures, stressing that borrowing is not bad as it is a developmental tool. The DMO’s Director-General stressed that Nigeria has a revenue challenge as the debt is within the sustainable threshold, pointing out that when the country has either a balanced budget or a surplus budget, then borrowing would be reduced. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  Nigeria’s debt stock hits N39.556trn  Nigeria’s debt stock hits N39.556trn  Nigeria’s debt stock hits N39.556trn Nigeria’s debt stock hits N39.556trn [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity