Ahead of the forthcoming governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress and the 2023 general election, former governorship candidate in Rivers State and chieftain of the ruling party, Prince Tonye Princewill, has begun his consultations with party stalwarts and leaders on the prospects of his intention to vie for governorship ticket of the party.
The governorship hopeful met with the Local Government Leaders of both Port Harcourt and Obio Akpor Local Government Areas and other party stalwarts in a series of closed door meetings on Monday.
Checks revealed that the two local governments represent almost half of the voting strength of the state, a fact not lost on the aspirant.
Speaking with newsmen after the meetings, the APC chieftain said the meeting with leaders was to listen to feedback from key stakeholders on his intentions and his plans for the APC and for Rivers state. “This whistle stop tour is designed for me to consult, before a declaration is made. You can’t put the cart before the horse. I needed to sit and look into the eyes of leaders and have them look into mine, so we can tell each other the truth. A declaration that comes after this kind of a process, will stand the test of time. “We have discussed all issues under the sun, from internal issues within the LGA, my father the King, how we will build a formidable front for our 2023, the leader Rotimi Amaechi, our commitment to his Presidency and of course, my ambition. I’m encouraged on all fronts. They have all spoken very very well.” In a related development, Prince Tonye also met with the chairmen of the nineteen wards in Khana Local Government Area of the state. Khana is the largest local government in the South state and is the heart of the Ogoni Kingdom.
Princewill described the meeting as both “frank and fruitful”.
“They urged me to contest for the position of Governor; they told me that my love for the Ogonis, shown over the years was about to be rewarded. ” The businessman and philanthropist used the opportunity to thank all the ward chairmen for keeping faith with the party and for remaining resolute in their support and loyalty to the leader of the party in the state and the south south, the Honourable minister of Transportation, the Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, noting that the future is very bright for the party and her members in the state.
Princewill who appreciated their support told them that he would justify their faith in him in a very short time. The tour to all of the key stakeholders continues every day for the next few weeks, to continue after the Convention. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details