President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the deployment of additional security personnel to address violence in Imo State and ensure peace in the state. Governor Hope Uzodimma of the state made this known when he briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of his summon to Presidential Villa, Abuja, by the president on Monday. According to the governor, the president has agreed to his request for more security personnel to address the security challenges facing the state. The governor was summoned following the latest attacks in Imo State targeting the home of Professor George Obiozor and some police assets. Obiozor is the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and a leading voice of moderation in the affairs of the country. Uzodinma, who confirmed that the meeting was on the insecurity in his state and the South-East, said: “Generally, it is the subject of insecurity in the South East and what is required to ensure that is properly controlled. “We discussed that and he took my recommendations seriously and indeed I tell you, he immediately gave approval to all that which include an increase in manpower of security agencies and then logistics support ranging from additional arms and ammunition.” In his efforts to meet aggrieved parties as promised, he said his administration had continued to reach out to aggrieved politicians in the state in a bid to carry them along so that they could contribute their quota to the growth and development of the state. He said: “Since January 2020 when I came to office, one of the things I initiated was quarterly stakeholders’ meetings. “As a matter of fact, I have had six stakeholders’ engagements. And the purpose of that engagement is to create a platform where the stakeholders will meet and will also act as an opinion poll to involve people in governance and that has yielded a lot of positive results. “Arising from that, we have also done one on one engagement with some critical stakeholders. “For those who are aggrieved, I don’t know if those grievances are against the government or against individuals. “But those who think are part of the political system that are not contributing positively to the current administration, we’re also reaching out to them. “Of course, I know if anything is to go by, some of the reasonable ones have started coming back. “If you have been following the politics of Imo of late, given the evolution we have just deployed to rescue the infrastructure that was almost absent and our achievements so far, it has attracted a lot of support from our people. “Leaders from Imo are together and united in commending our efforts. And if you can go to Imo State and be on the ground, apart from some dissenting voices that are on your social media, I think the state is almost recovered and we’re doing very, very well. “So, there’s no need at this point in time for people to be aggrieved over what is not in existence.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team