IMMEDIATE past president of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki, on Monday, led two other presidential aspirants: Governor Bala Mohammed and Sokoto counterpart, Amimu Tambuwal to Benue State to consult with the state goveror, Samuel Ortom. Saraki said that the decision of the team to come out with the idea of consensus candidate was to form unity and avoid rancour in the process of primary. He said the interest of the country was paramount at this time. “This is part of our consultation to show interest in the presidency. We should come together and find a consensus. We are at a defining moment in the history of this country. We are committed to finding someone to unite us and reduce rancour. We have total belief in the unity of our party. We will put the country first. We have confidence in you (Ortom) and what you are doing in the best interest of our party,” Saraki said. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Responding, Ortom commended the unity among the three aspirants and called on them to continue the advocacy and understanding among themselves. The governor also said that the world had gone digital and that there should be no room for anyone above 70 years as president. He said: “Any person beyond 70 years should not be looking for presidency. These are people, today, we are in computer age and these three gentlemen you see here are computer literate and they have the capacity. “We cannot continue to be in the analogue. How many of you were alive in 1930 or 1945? During the Second World War, how many of you were born that time? Even me, I was born in 1961. So, the world has changed, we are now in the digital world and we must computerise and digitalise governance too.” Similarly, Saraki, Tambuwal and Bala Muhammad consulted with Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State. A statement issued in Jalingo by the Special Adviser to Governor Ishaku on media and publicity, Bala Dan Abu, stated that Saraki, who led the three aspirants, told Ishaku that they were in his office to consult with him in a bid to ensuring a most credible candidate for the presidential ticket of the PDP is presented before Nigerians. According to the statement, the aspirants explained that they were working in harmony to ensure the party produces a credible candidate that will wrest power from the APC without rancour. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details