Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested a notorious drug dealer, Micha Godwin, at Nukai market, Jalingo-Wukari road in the Taraba state capital, Jalingo, during which the anti-narcotic officers came under attack and at least seven of them were injured and one of their vehicles damaged. NDLEA’s Director of Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi said, despite the attack, the officers however managed to arrest their target after recovering some quantities of illicit drugs from the suspect and thereafter retreated to take the wounded to the hospital for treatment. Following intelligence, Babafemi said in a statement on Wednesday that, operatives of the Agency on Tuesday stormed the market at about 2.30 pm to arrest the drug dealer and evacuate illicit substances in his warehouse. Soon after the arrest of Micha, he said, miscreants mobilised from the community to attack the officers and vehicles with dangerous weapons. Reinforcement from the state Command of the Agency and other security agencies was able to move in to rescue the operatives from the scene of the attack. In custody, the drug dealer said, “what happened today is bad because this is the second time I have been arrested and brought here but the first arrest was not like this. I don’t know who invited the boys who attacked the NDLEA officers” Reacting to the incident, Chairman and Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig- Gen. Mohamed Marwa (Rtd) condemned the attack and directed immediate switch to new operational guidelines that will make officers and men well-positioned to defend themselves adequately in the course of carrying out their duties. He again warned that henceforth, any obstruction or attack on NDLEA operatives in line of duty by suspects or their supporters would receive a commensurate response. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Seven officers injured  Seven officers injured Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Seven officers injured  Seven officers injured ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more