The Minister in charge of Good Shepherd Christian Church, Kinnira, Ogbomoso, Reverend Peter Adelowo, has appealed the Oyo State governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, to review the cases of the sacked principal officers of the Emmanuel Alayande College of the Education (EACOED), Oyo, by the immediate past administration of late Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Addressing the press after the 10th year remembrance service of Mrs Taiwo Folasade Alabi (nee Adegbite), late wife of the former Provost of the Emmanuel Alayande College, at the Estate Baptist Church Oyo, the clergy urged Makinde to redress the injustice meted out to the principal officers who alleged that they were sacked unjustly on political ground. The management of the state-owned College of Education led by Dr. A. O. Alabi (the Provost), were in 2011 sacked by the former governor of the state and were not reinstated in spite of passionate appeals and political interventions. Adelowo, therefore, appealed to Governor Makinde, whom he described as ‘God-sent’, “to use his good offices to call for the review of the cases of the sacked principal officers of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo, between 2009 and 2011. “Our governor is no doubt sent by God to reposition and bring succour to the state. The appeal becomes imperative because since his coming to power, he had reviewed many similar cases especially as regards the backlog of salary and pensions of workers owed by the immediate past administration. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “There is no doubt that the sacked management officers of Emmanuel Alayande College of Education Oyo were not given fair hearing. Engineer Makinde has received accolades from well-meaning Nigerians, not only Oyo state people, for his welfarist approach to governance and for making policies with human face. “Reviewing the case of the sacked principal officers would put the matter at rest since they would be given a fair hearing. If they are found guilty, so be it. I believe that the treatment meted to the officers had political undertone because they were accused of mobilising voters for PDP then, and PDP is in power today. “Alabi and his management were barley two years in office out of their mandatory four years renewable tenure when they were unceremoniously booted out of office. Engineer Seyi Makinde is a man of wisdom and i believe he would know how to bring succour into the life of Alabi and his management who have been made to suffer unjustly for ten years,” Adelowo stated. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details