A sexagenarian, John Anya, on Tuesday, prayed an Igando Customary Court in Lagos State to grant him a divorce from his wife of 33 years, Egobeke. In his petition, Anya, a haulage contractor who resides at Number 7, Unity Avenue, Akesan, prayed for divorce on grounds that his wife beats him up and she was not resourceful. “My wife is such a nuisance. She shows her character when I don’t have money to drop for the home front. She beats me. I have had to run away from home and put up in my church to save my life. She has tried to chock me to death before. “Look at her height and weight. Now, imagine her pinning me down and trying to snuff life out of me,” he told the court. He accused his wife of running down the business he set up for her. “She lacks managerial sense. She talks bad about me to my children and has turned their minds against me. I am fed up with the whole situation and I want the court to grant me a divorce,” he said. The respondent, Egobeke, a businesswoman, told the court in tears that she doesn’t want a divorce and that all that her husband said were not true. “Which virtuous woman has divorce attached to her portfolio. I do not want a divorce. Before we got married, I had been told I would have a rough marriage and I have settled it in my mind and I am carrying my cross diligently. “I have endured enough in this marriage sir. I do not know why my husband is telling all these lies against me,” she said. The respondent told the court that her husband had done so many unimaginable things to her. “This whole issue came up because of the three women he is dating now. One of them is my very good friend. He doesn’t know that I am aware of his atrocities, he patronises commercial sex workers,” she said She further told the court that the petitioner gives her only N1,000 as a feeding allowance daily for a family of five. “He says I beat him? Please can you see any scar on him? But look at my body, you will see scars from his beatings. President of the Court, Mr Koledoye Adeniyi, adjourned the case till March 31 for further hearing. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details