The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has said the rumoured strike to be embarked by police personnel in the country would amount to mutiny and disobedience to a lawful order. Speaking through the Deputy Inspector General, DIG, Johnson Kokumo, during an interactive session with men of the Ondo Command, in Akure, the Police boss appealed to Police personnel in the country to shelve the planned nationwide strike in the interest of the country. He said the planned strike was not necessary, saying the police authorities have been looking into all the issues raised by the officers and men to ensure better working conditions for them. Kokumo who is in charge of South-West States Zone admonished the policemen in the state not to allow some faceless individuals to lure them into an action that is inimical to the profession. He said “There is a need to reach out to you all. When there is a plan and you are not aware, you cannot be blamed. So I’m her intimate you on the plans of the President and IGP for you. “The President had announced a salary increase for police personnel and it is being processed, with computation already being made. There is a process it must take and there are a number of departments involved in the process. It will be done within the shortest possible time and you shall smile soon. “You do not engage in any form of strike action. Where have you had that police officer have embarked on strike? Such a move is mutinous and I pray that you will not be found committing mutiny. “I want to assure you that there shall be a better salary soon. I want to caution that you don’t allow disgruntled elements to lure you into anything that is criminal. “Do not get involved in things that will be inimical to your work, your profession. Many of those persons are faceless. They are looking for who to use as a scapegoat so that they will have the opportunity to laugh at you when you are in trouble. “Do not be found guilty of committing mutiny. Do your jobs diligently. Eschew all unethical things. Do your jobs with diligence. Let there be heavy respect for the rights of the citizens.” He disclosed that the police authorities have been making efforts to ensure that police opt out from the contributory pension scheme. Earlier, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, AIG, in charge of Zone 17 comprising Ekiti and Ondo States, AIG Ene Okon, assured that there were no plans by policemen attached to the Zone to embarked on the rumoured strike action. Also, the Ondo Police Commissioner, Oyediran Oyeyemi, assured the IGP that policemen under his command will not engage in anything that will dent the image of the profession. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details