The member representing Enugu North and South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Honourable Ofor Chukwuegbo, has formally declared his gubernatorial intention in the forthcoming 2023 guber polls. Ofor who is a two-time member of the Green Chambers was a PA to former Governor Ken Nnamani. Speaking, to his ward coordinators about his aspiration, Hon Chukwuegbo said, “You know the task at hand, which is to actualize our aspiration to succeed our respected incumbent leader and governor, His Excellency the Rt Hon Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi, come 2023. “We are committed, serious, and realistic in our aspirations as you all know already. “However, we are not taking anything for granted, meaning we have to do the needful. And the needful in this instance is to work, work, and work as a committed, united team of PDP faithful to give ourselves the best chance possible at coming party primaries.” Ofor pledged that “the power we seek is the power to consolidate and build on the achievements of the government of the day – the Ugwuanyi regime. “The power we seek is to have the opportunity to add value, improve on services rendered to our folks; the power to continue to make government accessible to the people and make lives  of Enugu people better.” He pledged to sustain the existing peace and provide an enabling environment for government/people partnership in areas of critical services while providing entrepreneurial and attractive business platforms. He later inaugurated the ward coordinators and charged them to act as his ambassadors. Party members drawn from various parts of the state including local council chairmen of Enugu North and Enugu South as well as women and youth leaders graced the occasion.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details