Members of the local hunters/vigilance group in the Ekiti local government area of Kwara state on Tuesday arrested seven suspected kidnappers, believed to have been terrorizing the area in recent time. According to a statement credited to the office of the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State, the suspects were arrested by the local security operatives during their operations in the local government. The information added that the suspects had been transferred to the state Police headquarters Ilorin. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Okasanmi Ajayi, who confirmed the development, said that the suspects are currently being held at the anti-kidnapping unit of the Kwara State Police Command, Ilorin. The PPRO also said that the suspected kidnappers, whose identities resembled Fulani in the picture that accompanied the state government’s statement, added that they are undergoing interrogation to ascertain if they are kidnappers. “The suspects are currently with the anti-kidnapping unit of the command, but we can’t say they are kidnappers because they are under interrogation and it has not been established that they are kidnappers,” he said. Meanwhile, members of the Vigilance group have continued routine combing of communities in the Ekiti local government area in the Kwara South senatorial district. The exercise, according to a local tabloid in the state, is supported by the state government. “It began over the weekend and comprises dozens of vigilante and local hunters who would work with local authorities to rid the areas of any criminal gang.” Also, as part of its efforts to prevent criminal elements from gaining a stronghold in the state, Kwara State Joint Security Task Force has begun a fresh round of operations in Kaiama and Baruten local government areas of the state to further beef up security in the state. The Task Force comprises operatives from various security agencies, including the military, police, and other agencies. The show of force, an initiative of the state government, has seen the security operatives combing communities in the local government to flush out criminal elements who may want to hibernate in the area. The security team has so far patrolled Kanikoko, Gegeji, Kokobigbe, Duse Dogo, Sabi Fili, Tunga Yakubu, Grichangi, Woro, and Venra. Other communities being patrolled are Gweria, Moshegada, Aboki, Gugiji, Nanu, Jonbiga, Karonji, Gwentte, Chikanda, the border town between Nigeria and Benin Republic, Yashikira, Gure, Shinatoko, Kuburufu, Yanri, and Kosubosu, among others. The security team enjoined the people of the area not to allow strange people to hibernate in their communities, urging them to report any strange movement for the safety of lives and property in the axis of the state. The security operatives also urged members of the vigilance team and communities folks not to accommodate any criminal elements in the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Local hunters arrest seven  Local hunters arrest seven Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Local hunters arrest seven  Local hunters arrest seven ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more