THE governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi has restated the commitment of his administration to wage war against the scourge of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) practice in the state. The governor also assured that the government was mapping out strategies for Ekiti to rank high  in the West African Examinations Council results in 2022, saying over 70 percent of students made five credits including English and Mathematics in the last results. Fayemi spoke in Ado Ekiti when Hacey Health Initiative presented prizes to five students, who came top in the ‘Stop FGM Essay Competition’ held in Oyo , Ekiti and Osun States to increase their awareness on the negative implications of the practice. The students are: Olamiju Abimbola Joy, Ekiti State Government College Ikere; Ogundipe Kehinde Esther, Christ Girls School, Ado Ekiti; and  Aborisade Omotolani Sarah, Christ Girls School Ado Ekiti, Others include: Ayodele Susan Mary Mofopefuluwa, St. Louis Grammar School Ikere Ekiti and Oladapo Oluwaferanmi Aanuoluwa, Mary Immaculate Grammar School Ado Ekiti. Addressing the students, Fayemi, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Folakemi Olomojobi, said, “We are working hard, making laws and reaching out to our partners to ensure that we stop FGM . The fact that our students are aware of this scourge makes us happy. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Executive Director, Hacey Health Initiative, Rhoda Robinson, said the programme was initiated to educate  students in Ekiti, Oyo and Osun states on the issues surrounding FGM their rights  and the laws prohibiting it. “This essay competition was launched in the three states of Osun, Oyo and Ekiti who are leading in FGM practice  in the Southwest and these  five winners have been selected from over 700 entries that we got. “The competition really helped in educating the students across the state on the evil called female genital mutilation. This sensitisation was necessary to improve the health of the female gender across Africa.” One of the recipients, Ogundipe Kehinde, said she was excited and happy, saying, “This competition was an eye-opener to me. With this honour,  I will fight for a leadership position, so that I can protect the lives of the people and implement the laws that forbid FGM in our society.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity