Former Minister of State for Health, Chief Fidelis Nwankwo has maintained that provision of decentralised water system, rural electrification, rural roads will be his priority if elected governor of the state come 2023. Chief Nwankwo disclosed this in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital during his declaration to contest next year’s governorship election in the state under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to him, neglect of rural areas in Infrastructural development and white elephant projects is behind the bane of underdevelopment in Nigeria. He added that rural areas are usually neglected by leaders in the provision of basic necessities of life like water, roads, electricity, good sanitation and other amenities and embark on white elephant projects which he said consume a chunk of state funds. He however described the current unemployment ratio of 35 per cent in Nigeria today as scandalous and unacceptable. “This is especially so when you compare this to the neighbouring Ghana which has 4.5 per cent. It is of course a single-digit even in most other developing countries. “The mantra in most government circles in Nigeria that government doesn’t provide employment is a fallacy in my view, and I consider it an attempt for the government to shirk its fundamental responsibility to her citizens. “My government will pursue aggression, youth employment in both formal and informal sector with emphasis on filing quotas of Ebonyi state share of positions  at the Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies,” he said  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details