Security agencies have reported that three corpses of some citizens killed by a mob on Monday in two locations in both Kaura and Jema’a LGAs have been discovered. The corpse picked around Kagoro Roundabout has been identified as the remains of one Ibrahim Isiyaku (Danasabe) of No 143, Bauchi Street, Kafanchan. Two other corpses recovered at a location named ‘Binzom’ behind the Kafanchan campus of Kaduna State University (KASU) have also been identified as the remains of Malam Ibrahim Rilwanu and Malam Lawali Zubairu, both of No.5 Emir Road of Kafanchan. This brings the total reported death toll from Sunday’s attacks and the ensuing violence to 37. In a statement issued by the commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan on Wednesday also said on Monday, the Fountain of Life Baptist Church, Kafanchan was attacked and its glass windows shattered. According to the statement on Monday, a bus belonging to the Baptist School of Health Technology, Kafanchan was attacked and vandalized. The driver of the bus, one Mr Bamaiyi, sustained cutlass injuries and is receiving treatment in a clinic. The statement noted that in another development, security agencies have reported that some hoodlums attacked and burnt down two herders’ settlements in Zauru and Kurdan in Zangon Kataf LGA. “As of the time of this report, the Chairman of Zangon Kataf local government, Mr Francis Sani Zimbo is holding an emergency security meeting with traditional and community leaders of Kurdan and Zauru over the incident. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i received the reports with deep sadness, and sent condolences to the families of the victims, as he prayed for the repose of their souls. He wished the injured driver a quick recovery. “The Governor also appealed to herders whose settlements were burnt to recourse to law and allow government and security agencies to handle the matter. “The Governor has been receiving hourly briefs of the security situation in Kaura and Jema’a LGAs, and other locations in the state. “Citizens are reminded to comply fully with the 24-hour curfew which remains in force in Kaura and Jema’a LGAs. This will enable security agencies to work effectively towards preventing further violence. “Search patrols by security agencies are being sustained in the area. Emerging updates will be communicated to the public. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Death toll rises  Death toll rises Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Death toll rises  Death toll rises ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details