The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has joined compatriots across the country to celebrate Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, on the auspicious occasion of his 65th birthday on Tuesday. Lawan congratulates Osinbajo on marking the day in good health of body and mind, and in position of invaluable service to his beloved country, Nigeria. “I rejoice with His Excellency, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on this day. According to Lawan Professor Osinbajo has proved his mettle in his chosen career, the legal profession, as well as in politics and governance. “He has brought into public service integrity, humility, loyalty and a cerebral approach to solving public challenges. He stressed that Osinbajo has consistently exhibited these attributes since he stepped into his first high public office over two decades ago. “Ever since, Professor Osinbajo has been a dedicated public servant, which has enabled him to become a significant part of the success story of the Buhari government. “I wish him many happy returns of the day and more years of good health and continued service to his fatherland,” Lawan says. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Lawan celebrates Yemi Osinbajo at 65 ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity