Heads of various security agencies in Oyo State have assured the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Dr Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade 11 of adequate and effective policing of Ibadan and its environs during his reign. Also, the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes, (CCII), in addition, to the security assurance given by the security operatives in the state hinted that phase 1 of the Olubadan palace at Oke Aremo in Ibadan North local government area would be ready for commissioning by December 2022. The assurances were given at a separate courtesy visit to Olubadan at his Alarere residence, Ibadan on Tuesday. The heads of security agencies were led by the State Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko, while Prince Yemisi Adeaga led the executive members of the CCII. Onadeko who described the visit as the first of its kind in the annals of Ibadanland said it would be translated into robust articulation in the discharge of their duties as security personnel. “We are here to felicitate the new Olubadan, not minding the fact that we were all at the coronation ceremony. We felt duty-bound to formally come round and pay homage to our revered father, Dr Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade ll and pray for him to live long in sound health and to get the wisdom to direct the affairs of his people. “As security personnel heading different security agencies providing security for lives and property in the entire state, we will continue to do everything within our power to ensure safety and security across the state which is our primary responsibility,” she added. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Asking the new Olubadan to listen to his Oloris as they offer him good counsel towards making his reign peaceful and progressive, the Oyo CP equally charged the Oloris, comprising Olayinka, Olufunmilayo and Khalimat Balogun to ensure that Kabiyesi does not derail as a visionary and forward-looking monarch. Oba Balogun, who expressed gratitude and appreciation to the heads of security agencies in the state for the visit said he had been closed to successive CPs in the state since 1979 as well as other heads of the security agencies depending on what the situation entails at any particular point in time. “Anything I can contribute to support and uphold the security of the state will be done. We are aware of the security threat in Ibadanland in particular and all my chiefs have been adequately briefed to work closely with you people towards ensuring that the peace and security in the state is not ruptured. “I’m aware of my position and responsibility and will not use it to impede your job in any manner or form. You can count on my support at all times, I assure you that I will not let you down.” Heads of security agencies in attendance include Mr M. A. Alex, Department of State Security (DSS), Mrs Uche Chukwura FIS, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and Mike Adaraniwa, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence (NSCDC). Others were B. A. Jayeoba, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Ailewon Nuel, Nigeria Correctional Service and the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) led by I. A. Dansuleiman. Meanwhile, the CCII has disclosed that Phase1 of the ongoing Olubadan palace project would be ready for commissioning by December 2022. Its President-General, Prince Oluyemisi Adetayo Adeaga who dropped the hint when he led other executive members on a courtesy visit to the Olubadan disclosed that fund released by the Federal government for the palace project nationwide is going to be judiciously expended on the project. Adeaga said the visit to the palace is part of the activities lined up for the 2022 Ibadan Week Festival which began on Sunday with Church Service at St. Peter’s Anglican Cathedral, Aremo, Ibadan. He, therefore, requested for the support of the new Olubadan by sanctioning the committee to be set up by the CCII to monitor the usage of the money just as it generates additional funds not only to complete phase one of the project but to also begin work on the next phase. Olubadan palace is a project that would involve everybody. With our population in Ibadan said to be four million according to the last population census, if just one million people out of the four million are captured as eligible to a thousand Naira each, a billion Naira would be raised and that would do something.” The CCII President-General expressed happiness on the emergence of Dr Balogun as the new Olubadan despite the initial hiccups and the kind of coronation held was unequalled in the history of coronation ceremonies in Ibadanland. He said, “with the way things turned out and the kind of weather experienced on the day of the coronation with a harmless heavy night shower that rounded off the day, we can say with confidence that the morning had already shown how the night would be as the good time to expect under the reign of the new Olubadan.” Insisting that this year’s Ibadan Week Festival would have been an exercise in futility without Olubadan’s presence, Prince Adeaga said everything had fallen in line with the coronation held last Friday just as he disclosed that the members would not go to the venue of the grand-finale on Saturday without assurance that Oba Dr Balogun would be there live and direct. Responding on behalf of Olubadan, Otun Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola thanked the CCII for their commitment and sacrifice for the ancient metropolis, asking them not to relent on every move and effort that would raise the bar of Ibadan socially, economically, culturally and even politically. He described the socio-cultural group as the conscience of the Ibadan, a duty that places on the enormous responsibility for the total well-being of all the residents of the ancient metropolis with a prayer that the Almighty God would always crown their efforts with resounding success.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity