Victims of gender-based violence and harassment at work places and across every facet of Nigeria society, will henceforth receive a huge support from the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA). The Federation, according to its new National Executive Committee under the leadership of Mrs Amina Agbaje, has pledged to build an ultramodern shelter for victims in Abuja. Mrs Agbaje, who is the country President and also the International Vice President of the federation, made this known in Abuja at the weekend, and further said that the shelter would be a one-stop-shop that would provide not just shelter for victims of gender-based violence but would include courtroom and other facilities. In her words, “What we desire to do is to have a one-stop-shop shelter that is very big. We intend to locate it in Abuja. Let me also add that while some of our branches have functional shelters, they are relatively small compared to the one we are proposing to build at the national level in Abuja. “It is going to be a centre where all the activities related to gender-based violence can be treated without any stakeholders dissipating energy on going from one location to another. It is a centre where all issues ranging from case reporting, investigation to prosecution and keeping victims safe in one location.” She went on to say that  a shelter for victims of gender-based violence became necessary to enhance speedy dispensation of justice and guarantee safety and comfort for victims. “As a group that has a bias for gender-based violence, the focus of the current leadership is to unveil a shelter for victims of gender-based violence. Most of the time when we rescue victims of gender-based violence we do not have a place to keep them before things are sorted out. We found that we are always in dire need of a shelter facility that is solely owned by FIDA. “What we do presently when we rescue victims is to look for a shelter, which is not always conducive for our work and interventions. So, our focus is to be able to deliver to the organisation a befitting shelter that has a courtroom, witness box, accommodation and facilities that can be a safe home for women who are facing gender-based violence,” she added. Mrs Agbaje also revealed that FIDA Nigeria conducts legal clinics for female detainees and offers to either offset minor fines or take up matters that need legal representations free of charge, as part of its efforts at decongesting correctional centres across the country. “As part of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) contribution to prison decongestion, we conduct legal clinics in correctional centres that have female inmates. Legal clinic means interviewing the women on the facts of their case and those that have minor fines to be paid, we often offer to offset such as an organisation. Then the ones that need follow up in the court, we do the follow up by giving them representations on a pro bono basis,” she noted. The new executive includes Evelyn Membere- Asimiea who emerged Deputy Country Vice-President; Eliana Martins is the National Secretary while Beatrice Abongye Awah was voted as the Assistant National Secretary. Chineze Obiano is the National Treasurer; Olunbunmi Niyi-Arajuwa emerged as the National Financial Secretary; Christiana Oyanvutu Adejumo became the Publicity Secretary and Rhoda Prevail Tyoden emerged as Ex-Officio. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details