President Muhammadu Buhari; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and others will today convene the All Progressives Congress (APC) Policy Conference stakeholders in government, politics, civil society, business, media, and academia to review the performance of the party since 2015 in the administration of Nigeria. Nigerian Tribune gathered that participants are expected to share their insights and perspectives on areas that the party in government has performed well as well draw attention to the gaps that exist in others, a development bid to enable the party to produce a roadmap that will shape its agenda for the 2023 general election. According to a release from the party, the overall objective of the APC Policy Conference is to position the thought of the leaders of the party and sector experts deliberate on the current and future policy direction of the party and provide a reform agenda, which the party will drive over the next phase of the administration, building on the current achievements, including the outcomes for state and local governments. It stated that the stakeholders will seek to address various segments around governance, economy, and social environment with the aim to re-enkindle investors’ confidence in the Nigerian economy. The release added that the specific objectives are to review the performance of APC-controlled national and subnational governments; analyse introspective pathways towards mapping the future to bridge the gaps and unlock the productive potential of the country. It was also gathered that the conference would also discuss the approaches required towards achieving an inclusive and coherent policy trajectory for the party in government and harmonise a sustainable implementation agenda with the implementation framework as a follow-up to existing plans, policies, programmes, and projects. Nigerian Tribune also learnt that the APC Policy Conference will be structured into different panel discussions that will focus on core thematic areas as follows: economy, governance, and human development. This will enable resource persons and participants to create a central spine that holds the party’s development agenda since 2015. Other big guns expected at the conference are state governors, secretary to the government of the federation, senators, and members of the House of Representatives, Speakers of State Houses of Assembly, members of the Federal Executive Council, members of APC National Executive Committee, chairmen and members of statutory commissions, state chairmen and others.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details