The Irigwe Development Association (IDA) of Plateau State has raised alarm over persistent destruction of farmlands and harvested crops by suspected herders through mischievous grazing saying crops destroyed in recent time worth over N500m. National president of the Association, Prince Robert Ashi, who disclosed this at a press conference in Jos said crops worth over N500 million were destroyed after a 36-man peace committee, led by Justice Daniel Longji (rtd), was inaugurated by Commander of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Major Gen. Ibrahim Ali. “This is alarming because it is coming few days after the 36-man committee was inaugurated to set the ground rolling for peaceful co-existence between Irigwe and Fulani community. “We had welcomed this move because of our belief in the sincerity of OPSH, Gen. A.S Ali, in ensuring that we enjoy peace in our land. “Our people had consistently witnessed an army of herders grazing and invading our land by their legions of thousands of cattle that lead to massive destruction of irrigation farms belonging to over 400 farmers. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This has caused huge damage to the people. This took place, from February 26 to March 23, 2022. “They have destroyed farm crops worth over five million naira, and have further impoverished our people who are mainly farmers. “This constant and calculated provocative destruction of our farmlands have shown that they do not want an end to these heinous acts. Enough is enough because we can no longer tolerate it anymore. “We call on government and security operatives to double efforts in apprehending those behind the evil acts and bring them to book.” “Weeks ago, the rigwe people woke up with influx and infiltration of Fulani herdsmen with their cattle in all parts of the land with insinuations that peace accord has been signed and entered between them and the Rigwe people. Again, the essence of reporting STF is to prove that the Irigwe people have not taken laws into their hands but following the established tenets of security policy. If it is so, we want to state in vivid terms that this recent nasty and obstinate behaviour by Fulani Herdsmen is another ploy to strike and shed blood in Rigwe land again because we are aware of the statements and words they have been uttering and making while grazing that “They have come to look for trouble or fight but we’ve refused to key in.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Plateau community raises alarm over herder attacks, claims N500m farm crops destroyed Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Plateau community raises alarm over herder attacks, claims N500m farm crops destroyed ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details