Pan-Yoruba socio-political organization, Afenifere on Sunday called on the National Assembly to go beyond the surface in its desire to reconsider the proposed amendment on indigeneship status for people living in particular locations in Nigeria. Afenifere made this call in a release issued by its spokesperson, Comrade Jare Ajayi, against the backdrop of announcement made on March 8, 2022 by the Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, that the National Assembly would reconsider at least three proposed amendments to the 1999 Constitution that had been rejected by the House earlier on. This was sequel to protests by the womenfolk on the rejection of the said three proposed amendments. They are amendments on foreigners married to Nigerian women, indigeneship and that of 35 per cent affirmative action in which women were asking for more space in country’s political space. The pan-Yoruba group said it was very much in support of women in the country being treated equally and fairly as their male counterparts, just as it called on the lawmakers to ensure that in the amendment concerning indigeneship, a proviso was not inserted in the Constitution that would surreptitiously make non-natives supplant the indigenes of a particular space in the country as some instances were proven in the Northern part of the country “where some armed bandits were forcefully camping themselves on some lands after killing or ousting the native-inhabitants of the area.” “We are saying this against the background of the move by some people who are agitating that anyone who is born in a particular area or has lived in the area for ten years be granted the indigeneship of the area in question. “We agree, and indeed believe, that every Nigeria has a right to live in any part of the country. But, we are also realistic enough to acknowledge the fact that every group anywhere in the world normally has a place that could be regarded as its native-land. The process or right to make such a claim derives from the linkage the group has with the ancestors who first settled in the given area. “Attachment to one’s community and, through it, to the soil of the ancestors or the homeland, is a fundamental dimension of the notion of citizenship in Africa as widely acknowledge by participants at a conference on ‘Citizenship and Indigeneity Conflicts in Nigeria’ which held in Abuja, Nigeria from February 8th -9th 2011. “It is a known fact that some armed bandits were forcefully camping themselves on some lands after killing or ousting the native-inhabitants of the area. This is happening especially in some parts of the North,” the statement stated. Afenifere said it was not opposed to peaceful and harmonious co-habitation by any tribe in any part of the country, but calling attention to the danger inherent in legally conferring indigeneship status on non-natives simply because they have lived for many years in the said area. According to it, such a notion is at the root of several communal clashes in the country, saying it was also very likely to create more problems, especially in a situation where herders settle on farmlands, raise families and rear livestock. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Unless carefully handled, in a few years’ time, there may be conflicts with original inhabitants of the area as has been happening in Southern Kaduna, Benue State and some other places. “What is desirable is residency right as is the case in countries we look up to such as the United States of America, Europe and the like. If you have lived in those countries for certain number of years and you satisfy certain conditions, you are given residency status with rights and privileges that are almost akin to that of an indigene. That is what we should emulate here,” Afenifere said. The group’s spokesperson posited that what was being said was not to negatively affect the status of a woman in a marriage, saying rather a matter of fact is that “once a woman is married to a man outside of her nativeland, she should enjoy all the rights being enjoyed by other women in the husband’s area.” Ajayi, while explaining further, said the reluctance to honestly deal with the issue of citizenship and indigeneship had been at the roots of major inter-communal and inter-ethnic clashes the country had been having over the years, recalling that conflicts in this respect began the moment the Euro-American concepts of citizenship and indigeneship were made to override African concept of the same ideas. Quoting the Congo-born Emeritus Professor Georges Ntalaja of the North Carolina University, Ajayi said that Africans are humans with ‘the greatest attachment to ancestral lands,’ adding: “It is in that milieu that their ‘values of solidarity such as ethnic allegiance and patriotism are born.'” Ajayi, while further positing that attempts to pretend that this was in the past had been responsible for the skirmishes that were occurring these days, however, warned that such problems were “likely to occur still if we failed to face the reality of our situation.” “No-one has a say in where he was born; for that reason, claim to a land should not occasion bloodshed. Native occupants of a land are not usually the precipitator of a clash – for they know that they have more to lose. It is usually those who came as usurpers that create the problem,” he asserted. The Afenifere chieftain, while cautioning the National Assembly lawmakers to be mindful of how they couched the proviso on Indigeneship, again quoted Prof Ntajala who said that “across Africa, groups identified as strangers or settlers may live in an area for over 100 years and still be considered as having no legitimate rights in the land they occupy.” The spokesman affirmed that Afenifere does not believe in discrimination in any form, saying rather what it was advocating for is that while settlers deserved protection, the rights of the indigenes should also be respected within the ambit of the law that is fair and just. “Inter-ethnic cohabitation is an agelong thing among our people without much hassles. Problems being experienced now were as a result of fueling by political elites and territorial expansionists. “In the words of Prof. Armstrong M. Adejo of Benue State University, ‘the horrendous relationship between the State and ethnic groups, are functions of the State aggressive accumulation of power and resources; deprivation of communities of their autonomy and power hierarchies, and structural change in the economy which exposed a reasonable percentage of people to several shocks in the development problem,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team