The stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Zone One, Kaduna State has pleaded with Governor Nasir El-Rufai to allow the zone to produce the next governor for fairness and justice. According to them, the zone has been marginalized when it comes to appointments in spite of their contributions to the party and the state. In a press conference at the secretariat of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kaduna State on Monday, addressed by the duo of Ahmed Yahaya Lere and Usman Ahmed Danbaba on behalf of the stakeholders from the zone noted that their zone is the backbone of APC in Kaduna State. “It is known to everyone that our zone is the strongest in the State, this is so because our consistent performance is undoubtedly outstanding in all previous elections of 2015 and 2019 and the recent local government elections. “Some of us here were State and Zonal party executives, returning agents of the party, former government officials and contestants, but most importantly, we are genuinely concerned about the future of the party and consolidating on the gains made by the administration of Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai. To this end, they said, “for the future of our great party, the APC, we believe that our views and stands on the FORTHCOMING party primary election of our great party should be listened to and be respected. In particular, it affects the choice of a predecessor to our leader, Mal. Nasir Ahmad Elrufai. “After lengthy deliberations and consultations, on behalf of our people, we make bold to demand the following on the choice of a successor to our leader, His Excellency Mallam Nasir El-Rufai. It was on this basis, they claimed that the next governor should come from the zone because of the following reasons. “For instance, zone one had a Senator, six members of the House of Representatives, eleven members of the out-state Assembly members, seven council chairmen are all from the zone. However, lamented that none of the Governor, Deputy Governor, the two Ministers, Party Chairman, Party Secretary, Women Leader, Youth Leader or the State representative at the national APC is from the zone. “Yet, the performance of the party especially in zone 2 has been declining, they alleged. For consolidation and continuity of the laudable projects of the governor in recent times, need a candidate that is competent, a team player and indeed familiar with the policies and development agenda of the current administration of Mal. Nasir El-Rufai. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Rotate the governorship ticket  Rotate the governorship ticket Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Rotate the governorship ticket  Rotate the governorship ticket ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details