The Chief Consultant and Contractor managing Mobile Permit in Delta State, Mr Kenneth George, has said the price of an emblem sticker for a minibus is N8,000 and not 25,000 as alleged by drivers. He made the clarification to Warri journalists on Thursday in reaction to the allegations levelled against him by God’s Own Commercial Vehicle Drivers Association for imposing the compulsory purchase of complete emblems on them. The contractor said that the price of the complete emblem has been N8,000 since he was appointed as the consultant managing the mobile permit on behalf of the 25 local government areas in 2020. He alleged that most of the transporters’ associations’ excos are the ones who always increased the price for their members, urging them to purchase the stickers directly from his office. “I no longer give some of these so-called association excos stickers to sell to their members because it seems these excos are the ones hiking the price of the stickers for their members. “I have said before that anybody that wants to obtain the sticker should come to my office directly and obtain it for the original amount which is N8,000 per year. “But when your vehicle is seized without the sticker after the set time for the sale of the sticker has elapsed, you are made to pay N15,000 for the sticker and to claim your vehicle. “What these associations do most times is to extort from their members; so I prefer dealing with these drivers individually. “We even made them understand that they can pay the N8,000 in instalment,” he stated. He also clarified that the sales of the complete emblem was legal and was not been banned at any time as alleged by some of the minibus drivers. “The sales of the Complete emblem is not illegal. If they said the sales of the sticker was banned by the former governor, let them provide a document or a memo stating that. “Before 2020, there were issues the LGAs chairmen complained to the governor about that they were not generating much revenue in this area. They also complained that there was a public outcry too that different local government councils were finding faults with the permit issued in the different LGAs. “The then chairman of Association of Local Government Council of Nigeria (ALGON) Delta State chapter, Hon. Itiako Constantine Ikpokpo (A.K.A MALIK ) from Isoko South Local Government Area then made a proposal to the governor that they would like to be unified with a single consultant who will be managing the issuing of the mobile permit and that they would want the permit to be one documents that will cover all the local governments. “Due to that, I was given the contract in 2020 to be the consultant managing the issues of permit/sticker. People were appointed in each LGA to come to get the stickers from me and sell them in their councils. “The ALGON body goes to the governor every year to get approval. And we have been doing business across the states and the sales of the sticker is for commercial and company vehicles,” he explained. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity