Former President of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan, has described the recent spate of unconstitutional change of government as posing a serious threat to African Democracy. Jonathan said the unpleasant political events that have happened in some African countries like Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso, has undermined democratic change of government in the West African sub-region and constituted an issue if grave concern. The former President said this on Wednesday at the West African Elders Forum (WAEF) meeting with the objective of promoting democratic Culture I’m the West African-Sub region. The meeting would focus on the assessment of extant trends in the region with a view to proposing a plan of action that would checkmate re-occurrence and ensure stability in the region. The former President who is the chairperson of the West African Elders Forum tasked West African leaders to employ their diplomatic power to address the issues as well as make democracy work for the citizens of the region. His words: “As a region, the fate of our democracy is been put to question by unconstitutional change of government as recently witnessed in Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso. “These sad developments which have occasioned a gradual erosion of our civic space and value system is what has necessitated this meeting today. “Our gathering today, therefore, seeks to articulate possible solutions and strategies that will help consolidate our democracy. “This is with a view to actively engage with governments and key stakeholders to stem the tide of democratic backsliding and the breakdown of law and order in our nations. “I am worried that some members of the sub-region are beginning to opt for military intervention because of what they consider as the weaknesses and flaws of democratically-elected leaders. “As respected leaders, I am aware that many of you here wield great influence in our sub-region and continent. “Together, we can leverage our experiences and the power of diplomacy to resolve the crisis in ECOWAS today,” Jonathan stated. “This is why we need to continually advocate for the strengthening of our democratic institutions. Strong institutions are the pillars for the sustenance of our democracy and the development of our nations. “As stakeholders, we must therefore help in this regard and fashion out the best approach towards the strengthening of political systems. “As I conclude, let me re-emphasize the point that is often made that for democracy to endure, it must yield basic public goods to its citizens. These include economic development, good social services, freedom, justice, peace and security. “This underscores the place of good governance in our discourse of democracy. Democracy losses its meaning if it does not guarantee the economic status and social security of the citizens. “Today, we must interrogate some fundamental issues such as recurring military intervention, democracy and good governance, peace and security, economic development as well as human trafficking in our sub-region.” Former Sierra Leone President, Ernest Koroma described the meeting as timely in assessing the peace and security in the sub-region. Koroma said that the ongoing reviews of Security protocols by the African Union (AU) and ECOWAS underscored the fact that the region was experiencing challenges and reversers in the gains made over the decay. “It is time for us to quickly address these reversers by ensuring that we come up with a proposal that will address the situation. “Our region has not been an exception. We have had five coups. Three succeeded, two failed. “I believe as elders with the mandate we made known, we have a great responsibility to continue to engage to access the circumstances that have led to the deteriorating situation. “Is it a failed democracy? Is it a system failure? Is it an institutional failure? Is it government failure? These are the issue that we have committed ourselves to do.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details