The Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Niger State, Prof Sam Egwu, has said that the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in 14 Local Governments of the state would vote in the IDPs camps if the security situation in the state does not improve before the forthcoming 2023 general elections in the country. Prof. Egwu stated this on Monday during a stakeholders meeting held with representatives of political parties, security agencies and other citizens at the State INEC Headquarters in Minna, the state capital. The REC said the highest of no-go areas due to insecurity were in Shiroro and some parts of Munya Local Government Areas, stressing that the commission was already working to replace the PVCs for IDPs who have lost their PVCs and to also register those who have not registered before, noting that the commission was committed to inclusive elections, hence the need to factor how to make the IDPs eligible to vote. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Prof. Egwu stated further that INEC already had a policy for IDPs voting, just as he calls for support and cooperation from political parties and other stakeholders to achieve the results. He said no fewer than 1,765 new polling units have been created in addition to the existing 3,186 in the state, pointing out that some polling units would be depopulated before the elections. The Head of Department, Operations, Mohammed Babatunde Yusuf said eligible voters from 270 polling units have been completely displaced from their homes of which 46 polling units were from Munya LGA, Mariga LGA (100 polling units), Shiroro LGA (62 Polling units) while Rafi LGA has 62 Polling units that were affected. Yusuf said if the security situation does not improve, the voters in Shiroro Local Government would have travelled about several kilometres to Minna, the State Capital to vote after which the results would be taken back to Shiroro LGA. Egwu, however, said it wasn’t the responsibility of INEC to convey the IDPs to wherever it establishes to be safe for them to cast their votes. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity