Legislative Council of Ningi LGC in Bauchi State has dared the State Government for the purported suspension of the Executive Chairman of the Council, Mamuda Hassan Tabla, declaring that no one has the Constitutional power to suspend or remove him as an elected person. The legislative Council also distanced itself from the purported suspension of Tabla as widely circulated on social media. The Legislative Council led by the Speaker, Yakubu Anas Muhammad, the Councillor representing Nasaru A, leading other members to address members of the Correspondents Chapel on Thursday evening said that the purported suspension was aimed at causing political instability in Ningi LGA, particularly at a time when the general election is fast approaching. He declared that though the legislative council was invited to a meeting at the SDGs office, Government House, members left with the expectation that the allegations levelled against the Executive Chairman only for a letter to be circulated about the suspension. According to him, “Ningi LGC was duly elected into office and by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended and all other relevant laws, no one aside the legislative council has the power to suspend or remove an elected Council.” He stressed that “We are convinced that the Governor was not aware of what the perpetrators are doing because as a onetime Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a Minister of the FCT, he knows the law and will not allow such to happen, not at this time when he needs every support.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE While commending the Governor for the various developments in Ningi LGA coupled with appointments of sons of the area into high political offices, Yakubu Muhammad urged the Governor to immediately intervene to salvage the situation. While reading out the stand of the Council, the 18 elected members of the Ningi legislative council stated that “With due respect and honour, we, the undersigned Councillors of Ningi Local Government, wish to disassociate our selves from the purported letter of suspension of the Chairman, Ningi Local Government going round in social media.” “We wish to categorically state that we never sat, deliberated and resolved to suspend the Executive Chairman. Therefore the said letter never emanated from us and we strongly condemned it and whoever writes or supports it,” the legislative Council added. The Council added that “We want to further state that, we are in total support of our Executive Chairman. He has done nothing wrong to warrant any suspension from the council.” According to the Council, “We also want to advise His Excellency, the Executive Governor to be wary of some selves seeking politicians around him, who are using the issue of the alleged involvement of the Executive Chairman in the deforestation of Lame/Burra Game Reserve to achieve their hidden agenda of removing the Executive Chairman.” The Council stressed that “They thought that the Chairman will be a stumbling block in their quest for elective positions. They should be reminded that “it’s God Almighty that gives leadership to whom he wishes.” “We urge the Secretary to the State Government to identify and take necessary action against the perpetrators of this mischievous act,” it also stated. It concluded by stating, “Finally, we wish to reiterate and affirm our unalloyed loyalty to His Excellency the Executive Governor and his administration. We remain yours faithfully.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity