Preparation for the swearing-in ceremony of former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo, as the next Anambra governor is ongoing across the state. The low key event is expected to take place at the State Government House, along Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, Awka, Anambra state capital, on Thursday, March 17, 2022, by 9:30 am prompt. Prof. Soludo won the governorship election under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). He defeated the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Valentine Ozigbo, Senator Andy Uba (APC), Senator Ifeanyi Ubah (YPP), Dr Obiora Okonkwo (ZLP), Dr Godwin Maduka (Accord Party) and others in a keenly contested election in the last November 6, 2021 governorship election. He was victorious in 19 out of the 21 local government areas of the state, polling 112,229 votes, and edging out his closed rival Ozigbo who got 53,807 votes. To that effect, a statement has been issued to Journalists, in Awka, by the head of his media team, Joe C. Anatune. The statement read; Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo, CFR, Anambra State Governor-elect will officially be sworn in tomorrow, Thursday, March 17, 2022, as the sixth democratically elected governor of Anambra The solemn ceremony which will be low key will take place at the Government House (Agu-Awka). Invited guests are expected to be seated by 9: 00 am prompt. After the official swearing-in, Prof Chukwuma Soludo will inspect a guard of honour and consequently makes his inaugural address to the people of Anambra State. Thereafter, an inter-denominational service will hold briefly before the new Governor immediately sets out to work Please note this event is strictly low key and devoid of the usual merry-making and unbridled celebrations usually associated with occasions of this nature The Governor-elect however remains grateful to everyone for the outpouring of goodwill messages as well as the continuous support from well-wishers and numerous supporters within and across the globe. Meanwhile, the Anambra State Command of the Nigeria Police Force has said that measures had been put in place to ensure the safety of lives and property during the inauguration. The State Commissioner of Police, Mr Echeng Echeng, who spoke to Newsmen in Awka, ahead of the swearing-in ceremony, expressed the Command’s readiness for the programme. He said; We are together with other security agencies, in making sure our operations work as we did during the campaign and election proper in the state. The CP warned those that are not invited to steer clear of the venue to avoid embarrassment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity