No fewer than 60 children were reportedly down with measles as there is an outbreak of the disease in some Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps in Benue State. Some of the camps hit by the disease include; Otese, Bawa and Daudu 3 all located in the Guma local government area of the state. An impeccable source disclosed that while 30 children from Otese camp were down with measles more children were reportedly down with the disease in Bawa and Daudu 3 IDP camps. It was reliably gathered that children between five years and above were mostly affected. Confirming the outbreak of measles in the IDP camps in the state, the Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr Emmanuel Shior though did not give the number of children down with measles. But he allayed the fear saying that the agency was already collaborating with the State Ministry of Health and non-governmental organizations like; Doctors Without Borders, UNICEF and ICR to address the outbreak of the disease. He said, “Government, through Ministry of Health, is on top of the situation, usually during hot seasons like this, we experience issues of measles, so the ministry is collaborating with SEMA, Doctors Without Borders, UNICEF and ICRC, who are supporting us in the area of WASH. So, we are addressing the concern.” Speaking to newsmen on Sunday, Benue State Project Coordinator of Medecines Sans Frontiers (Doctors Without Borders) Mitch Rhyner said that the organization had since 2018 continued to support the displaced persons in IDP camps in the state including victims of measles in the state. The project coordinator stated after conducting newsmen round the exhibition of their activities to celebrate the organisation’s 50 years of humanity. The exhibition was held at City Bay Park located at Wurukum in Makurdi, the capital city of Benue State. Rhyner explained that the organization had played a vital role in Benue State since the displacement of people after the herdsmen attack on the state communities in 2018. ” Since then, we’ve conducted activities in four other LGAs, providing primary healthcare to some thousands of patients. We’ve drilled boreholes, conducted a cholera response, established shelters, and delivered food and non-food items. “We’re currently helping the State Ministry of Health respond to a Measles outbreak. We’ve enjoyed partnership with the Ministry of Health, State Emergency and Maintenance Agency and other humanitarian and state organizations during these activities,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team