The Managing Director of Okomu Oil Palm Company PLC, Graham Hefer, on Wednesday said that the company paid N20 million last year under its whistleblowing policy in order to improve intelligence gathering and harmonious relationships with its host communities. At a lecture titled, “Managing Perception (Changing Perception and Mindset)”, held at the company’s premises in Okomu in Ovia South-West Local Government Area of Edo State, the MD also said that the company was able to get 50 per cent conviction, ranging from six months to six years, for the over 100 cases of stealing in 2021. Hefer stated that the lecturer, which is coming on the heels of recent attacks on the company that led to the death of one of its workers, is to build a better and more cordial relationship with the 24 communities around the plantation. He said it was high time the communities started looking after the company which was doing so much to better a lot of its people, adding that it would become a win-win situation if that could be achieved. “Last year, we paid N20 million under our whistleblowing policy because it helps in intelligence gathering and we were able to apprehend 100 criminals with 50 of them getting various jail terms. We protect those who give us the information and we hope they will continue to partner with us to ensure security is guaranteed in the area. “If my company gets attacked, my staff gets killed, my equipment get destroyed, the products stolen and the communities keep quiet or look the other way, how would I be able to do things for you if I continue to lose revenue? “I have 24 communities around Okomu and no one has been able to point out any of the hoodlums who attacked the company recently. It is either the communities are backing the hoodlums or do not want Okomu’s continuous existence. If you don’t help us secure the plantation, do you as communities have the moral right to ask the company to do more for you. “My plea is that you should do the right things by fishing out hoodlums so that we can continue to be partners in progress. Insecurity is a huge problem so we should stand together against these hoodlums and gunmen who are terrorising our communities and the company. I want the communities to look after us so that we are no longer vulnerable,” he added. Some of the participants acknowledged the enormity of the task ahead and promised to work with Okomu to improve the security of the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Okumu oil paid whistleblowers  Okumu oil paid whistleblowers Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Okumu oil paid whistleblowers  Okumu oil paid whistleblowers ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more