Abductors of the six chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State have been killed in a rescue operation conducted by the local vigilante, it was learnt on Monday. The Tribune gathered that the kidnappers were shot dead on Saturday night as the vigilante operators swooped on their hideouts in bushes around Ekiti Local Government Area of the state after hours of tracking. A security source said the state government, had since the incident a few days ago, activated the security architecture which involved the police and local vigilante groups in the area. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Rafiu Ajakaye, on Monday said that the vigilantes had traced the abductors to their hideouts following detailed intelligence gathered from various sources. Part of the successful operation involved difficult terrains and night movement. “However, one of the victims, an APC woman in Koro Ward of Ekiti Local Government, was discovered to have died as the local security network engaged the criminal in a gun duel. The criminal gang in their usual cowardly ways put the victims in harm’s way as a human shield during the operation, the source said. “During the exchange and operation that lasted hours, the criminals were killed and their corpses have been handed to the police. Sadly, we lost one of the victims while five others were rescued alive and are now being taken care of,” according to the source. Sources noted that the operation was a difficult one and praised the heroic efforts of the vigilante. “It should be noted that based on what was observed during the operation, the criminal element had no issue causing us to lose all five (remaining) abducted victims. The professionalism of the groups involved in the operation limited the number of innocent lives lost in the operation. A life lost is one too many, but we thank God for the successful rescue of the other five innocent victims”, one of the sources observed. He added that the government has, apart from supporting the conventional security networks, been investing in the local vigilante bodies to strengthen the security of lives and properties in the state. “The government has similarly established strong relationships with other states to boost security. I can also confirm that three Kwarans who were recently abducted in Kaduna State have been freed following discreet efforts of the state government, which swung into action once the issue was brought to its attention last week. Two of the abductees are students. As I speak to you, the government is arranging their safe movement to Ilorin, the state capital,” the source added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Kwara abductors killed in gunfight  Kwara abductors killed in gunfight  Kwara abductors killed in gunfight Kwara abductors killed in gunfight ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team