Zamfara State Commissioner for Information, Ibrahim Dosara has said the state university in Talata Mafara has since begun academic activities. In a statement made available to the Tribune Online which he signed on Monday noted that when the present administration came into power in 2019, no academic activities were going on in the university. “It was HE Matawallen Maradun that approved the immediate commencement of academic activities which demonstrated his commitment to the University project in the initial stage. “Soon after assuming office in 2019, His Excellency, Hon. (Dr.) Bello Mohammed, MON, (Matawallen Maradun), evaluated the socio-economic worth of the University project, and decided to pursue its development to its logical conclusion. Consequently, he appointed Prof. Muazu Gusau, from the Department of Biochemistry of Usmanu University Sokoto, as the first substantive Vice-Chancellor to chart the course for the development of the University in June, 2020. Dosara maintained to further speed up and fast track the take off of the institution, he again replaced Prof. Muazu with Prof Yahaya Zakari, the current Vice Chancellor, also from the Usman Danfodio University. He said in the same vein, the Governor appointed Mal Bashiru Samaila Mafara as the pioneer Registrar, Mal. Usman Bungudu as Bursar of the institution and Mal Abubakar Sule Kaura as the Director Physical Planning, Works and Maintenance. According to him, 18 courses were accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC), while 32 programmes had interim accreditation by the NUC at the commencement of the academic activities. “As a further demonstration of the present administration’s commitment for the smooth development of the University, all processes have now been concluded and recruitment of 265 academic staff, as well as 300 non-academic staff. “Interviews have been conducted for most of the applicants and are awaiting the last stage of the final screening of the recruitment process. “His Excellency has also approved the release of Sixty Million Naira the University owes the part-time lecturers engaged to teaching the students in the university, he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details