Some stakeholders in Anambra State have eulogised and condemned Chief Willie Obiano’s eight years achievement in office as the state governor. Some laud while others frowned on the developmental programmes in the state. Governor Willie Obiano was elected into office on March 17, 2014, under the political platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). Obiano, a native of the Aguleri community in Anambra East Local Government Area of the state, join politics after his retirement as the Executive Director of Fidelity Bank in 2012. His emergence as governor was strongly backed by his predecessor, Mr Peter Obi and the former APGA National Chairman, Senator Victor Umeh. Among those who reacted, according to Tribune Online’s findings, is a prominent indigene of Ndiowu community, in Idemili South local government area, engineer Chike Emenike who expressed joy for the security being enjoyed in the state, describing Obiano as the best ever experienced governor, Anambra State has produced since Nigeria returns to Democracy in 1999. Engineer Emenike while thanking the state governor for his agricultural Programme which he said is yielding results, urged the incoming government of Professor Chukwuma Soludo to extend the same to Ndiowu as there are hectares of land yet to be cultivated. He also commended the governor’s wife Mrs Ebelechukwu Obiano for her numerous empowerment programmes and urged her to activate their skill acquisition centre and make it functional for the good of Ndi Anambra, as she is vying to represent Anambra North Senatorial District at the National Assembly in 2023 general elections. While listing other developmental programmes of the governor, engineer Emenike promised, on behalf of the Ndiowu community, to give Prof. Soludo total support, as he assumed office today, March 17, 2022. Hon. Pete Ibida, a member representing Njikoka I State Constituency, commended the Governor for providing security among numerous other achievements. Ibida, who is also contesting for the House of Representatives position for Anocha/Dunukofia/Njikoka Federal Constituency, urged Ndi Anambra to give Soludo maximum support for him to fulfil his plans for the state. For the State President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prince Emeka Udodeme and the National President, Anambra State Association of Town Unions Barrister Titus Akpudo, Governor Obiano is a big blessing to Anambra state. They said Obiano’s achievements outweigh that of his predecessors, Mr Chinwoke Mbaninuju, Chris Ngige, Andy Uba and Peter Obi. In their opinion, the achievements of Governor Obiano will transcend generations on the note of remarkable positive impact. They noted that by delivering the international cargo and passenger airport Umueri, Governor Obiano recorded the highest achievement which his predecessors could not achieve since the creation of Anambra State. On his part, a stakeholder in the Ichida community, Chief Innocent Chiekezie and a member of the diaspora community, Prince Neville Uchendu, Governor Willie Obiano has set Anambra on the track of continuous growth and development. He noted that posterity will be kind to Governor Obiano for championing leadership anchored on legacy and selfless services. The Managing Director of Stanel Group, Dr Stanley Uzochukwu, said Anambra will not forget Obiano led administration for any reason. He stated that Obiano has written his name in gold in the history of Anambra State with regards to his Innovations and legacy projects. He prayed for a smooth transition for a better Anambra state under Prof. Soludo’s administration. The member representing Njikoka I constituency at the Anambra State House of Assembly, Hon Timothy Ifedioramma, on his part, stated that the out-going governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano started well, especially on the aspect of security but ended poorly. Ifedioramma (APC lawmaker), in an interview with Tribune Online after plenary, urged the incoming governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo to learn from the mistakes of Obiano. In his words: “If Obiano had ended his administration in the first tenure, I would have scored him an 80 per cent but this last tenure was a disaster. “So many other sectors suffered because he was pursuing some legacy projects. Which tied up the economy of the State. “The ten thousand capacity international convention centre could have been five thousand capacity so as to save cost and have money for other projects. “Obiano has done his part, he has good intentions but the actions behind those good intentions to a large extent were not properly carried out. “It is important that we understand that in the modern democracy is like a relay race where one passes the baton over to another. It’s an endless circle. ‘Ndi-Anambra are grateful for the international airport and I applaud Obiano for the thought but the effects of that project was that other sectors and the economy of the state was held to ransom. “Anambra roads are in a bad shape. We have an airport but no roads to the airport. I will want the next administration not to toe that path of holding on to one project at the expense of multiple others. “In governance, it is important to differentiate between what one did by himself and what was done with the taxpayers’ money. “Governance according to section 14-2 of the 1999 constitution as amended stated clearly the purpose of governance which is for the welfare and security of the people. Obiano will on the 17th of March 2022 hand over the leadership of Anambra State to the governor-elect Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, on a gathering not less than fifty invitees. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity