I will not start with the departure, 14 years ago, of Professor Femi Sonaike; age-mate [May 29, June 3], town-mate, classmate, same profession, same height,  Best man to each other at weddings two weeks apart, one extroverted and the other introverted. Neither will I go back to this day 10 years ago when my friend, the extraordinarily gregarious Golf-enthusiast Sir Apagun Oluwole Olumide [who I believe was murdered March 16, 2012] forcibly commenced his journey in the Continuum. Tears for the two had dried up…only reminiscences. Of recent were the passages of UK-based Prince Ademola Adenuga, retired Department Permanent Secretary and humour merchant Pastor Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, renowned journalist, two close friends and associates who rarely spoke English language with me each time we conversed. Ademola and Gbolabo were fond of opening every greeting on the phone with the Ijebu dialect ‘Wesoo Tola’, and that would automatically set the tone for the rest of the chat even for one hour long! They both left last year. Two Aburos of mine that I was certain would succeed me [until the contrary happened] were Otunba Jide Awosedo, Estate magnate, and Omo-Oba Gbenga Osinowo, businessman, lawyer and politician. They both hailed from Odogbolu where a quarter of my mother’s ancestry was rooted. And they were both blessed. They fondly called me Egbon and would do anything for me gladly and voluntarily. They indulged me to no end. Jide would send his driver to pick me from home for lunch or dinner at his residence in Lekki or Okun-Owa while Gbenga represented me on many occasions as chairman of events. We shared a lot of thoughts on many topics and issues and I was confident that after my departure the thoughts and views we shared would endure. Another generation included my first cousin El-hadj Wale Bakare who I was cock-sure would be in the forefront of those to lower my body into the grave. Confident that he would survive me made me to include him in the list of the executors of my Will. Wale worked and lived with me in the mid-70s in my days at the Sketch Newspapers and shared confidence with me. Teacher, journalist, administrator and public speaker, Wale left me to mourn him last year when he was about to enroll in the Septuagenarian Club. Very early in 1961 Prince Otunba-Payne drove into the campus of Ago-Iwoye Secondary School and handed to me his son Adedeji to mentor as a ‘college son’. The relationship which ensued was so strong that there was hardly anybody in that school throughout the 60s who would not remember the special place Deji occupied among the over 50 college sons who graced my send-forth photograph in 1963. Deji, a veterinary doctor who later became Permanent Secretary in Ogun State, remained my family member so much so that his children call me grandpa till today. He left me to mourn him a month after his 70th birthday in 2017. It was a similar story in 1964 when Ambassador Segun Olusola drove to Ijebu Muslim College Ijebu-Ode and handed over his nephew known then as Funmi Joshua a form two student to mentor. Funmi was the star actor in my stage/TV adaptation of Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart in the 1966 production when he played the role of Ikemefuna. Dr Funmi Joshua changed his name to Funmi Odusolu when he left academia as Senior Lecturer and became full-time Babalawo as an Orunmila devotee. Funmi distinguished himself as an international actor featuring in major plays in US, Europe and across Africa. He was also a reputable sculptor, poet, playwright, director/producer, choreographer, singer and drummer. He was my personal editor and critic. Our very intimate relationship remained intact until 3 years ago when, on his approach to the Septuagenarian gate, he bade me good-bye! Omo-olope Taiwo Adenekan also left me heartbroken about a year ago at 65. Cerebral Taiwo was assigned to me as Special Assistant when I was appointed Federal Permanent Secretary in the Presidency late 1990. We bonded instantly and he was very strategic and helpful in the task of relocating the seat of the Federal Government with its agencies to the new capital Abuja, which was my primary responsibility as Director General. A brilliant Economist and aviation expert Adenekan’s brain brewed ideas. Taiwo remained committed Personal Assistant delivering lectures on my behalf, representing me in several academic forums and was also involved in my business enterprises.  He was loyal, trustworthy, dependable, hardworking and thorough. His departure about this time last year was like slicing off a chunk of my body. And now, which is what drove me nuts since Wednesday March 16. was the devastating departure of  Prince Emeka Obasi at age 58! The youngest of the Associates and Successors! General Fred Chijuka my friend of close to 40 years brought Emeka to me in 1991 and said, in his words, ‘’Chief, this is a bright brilliant young man I want you to have in your orbit. He is a young man after my heart.” I looked at the young man and convinced myself that he must be in the age range of 23-25 based on his youthful looks and his beautiful fragile frame. I was mistaken, he was much older. The man was solid steel with the brain of a thousand men! From that moment on, Emeka virtually became a part of me. Emeka Obasi is [how do I say was?!] phenomenal. Even as I write this piece, his usual salutation of ‘Aaarabaa!’ pierces through my head. Anytime he called, the echo filled the whole house. I am still in a shock! And why should the Maker of the exceptionally brilliant Minds in my circle decide to pluck off two within the spate of 12 months? Anytime I visited Emeka’s office, work for him stopped for the day. We would spend the rest of the day on dialectics, syllogisms, far-flung philosophies, political excursions, finance and economics and cap the debate with lively exposition of literary criticisms, poetry, drama and other disciplines of humanity germane to our basic specialties. Visits to his residence or his to my residence received the same treatment with choicest Cognac as witness. Oh yes! We shared confidences. Emeka was widely connected with both the high and lowly. I am yet to meet any other Nigerian of his age with the breadth and spread of Emeka’s connections with the highest net-worth individuals. Yes, Emeka had taste and style and lived a princely life. I will rather let Dr Teslim Shitta-bey summarize for me what and who Emeka was and the huge loss I suffered. “So this is true? The news shattered my heart into a million pieces. I am numb to write. But my condolences to the Prince Emeka Obasi family. An exceptionally brilliant man and irrepressible writer and politically astute journalist has gone to be with his Creator. The cold hands of death are burnt by the shinning brightness of his love of God. “He was a master of the English language, a connoisseur of the quaint and clever expression. Emeka was a literary craftsman with unusual dedication and commitment to the sculpturing of English language into a linguistic masterpiece. He was a thinker and indefatigable social networker. “He was a restless ideas merchant with no patience for carpetbaggers and social drifters. He was beyond doubt that hard work was the precursor of large earnings. “Today is not the day for treatise because a great man’s passing requires deep and sober reflection. Today requires us to thank God for the gift of having met an uncommon person and having fellowshipped with a beautiful mind, even if cut short by our common mortality. “Goodnight Prince, sleep well in God’s loving presence.”  Short tribute posted on Fcebook by Teslim Shitta-bey. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team