A war is practically brewing between the Drunkards Association of Ghana which claims it has 6.6 million members and the Managing Director of a distillery company producing some drinks over what the association described as an insult on its members by the managing director. The Drunkards Association also said it had decided to boycott all alcoholic drinks produced by the said distilleries firm, GIHOC Distilleries Company Limited, over what it called the alleged insult by the Managing Director of the company for asking them to drink water if they cannot afford the new prices of their products. It was alleged that the Managing Director, Maxwell Kofi Jumah, in an interview with some media outfits in Ghana, said the company would increase the prices of their products to meet the high cost of production and that consumers who cannot afford the new prices of alcoholic drinks should resort to drinking water. He was also alleged to have said that excessive intake of alcoholic beverages is often a pastime for people who are too lazy to work. This was what was said to have angered the Drunkards Association who said what the Managing Director said was an insult on its 6.6 million members, adding that he should withdraw the statement and if he refused, the members would boycott the drinks produced by the company. The statement, according to the President of the Drunkards Association of Ghana, Moses Onya, is an insult to the members which he claimed included prominent personalities in the country. Speaking during an interview, which was posted on ModernGhana, an online news agency based in Ghana, on its website, Moses Onya warned that until Kofi Jumah apologised to them, the 6.6 million members of the association would “boycott all products of GIHOC Distilleries Company Limited. “We take Mr Jumah statement as unfortunate, discriminating and an insult, for labeling us as lazy people and asking us to drink water as a substitute. “With immediate effect, the 6.6 million members of the association will not patronize the products of GIHOC until he apologises to us,” Moses Onya, also known as Dry Bone, said. He urged all members to abide by the direction to protect their reputation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Drunkards Association in Ghana  Drunkards Association in Ghana Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Drunkards Association in Ghana  Drunkards Association in Ghana ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team