Following the successful recorded on his single “In Town” featuring Haaj Silver, US-based Nigerian Artist and Model, Nosakhare Ologbosere, popularly known as Nosakhare Styles has released another single entitled “911”. According to Stylez, the song which was produced by Smoothkiss was released as a result of the success his previous song recorded. He said that the outcome of the song “In Town”, proved to him just how much he was loved and the support he received from friends, fans and family made him decide to step up his game and release another one which he titled “911”. “I was overwhelmed by the massive love and support I got from the release of my first single, “In Town”. Just looking at the stats, I was convinced that this path was made for me, and that’s why I’m releasing this song in appreciation of the support I’m getting from all over I don’t take it for granted,” he said. The Industry music star also said that he looks forward to positive comments and reactions and feedback from his fans and supporters regarding the new song. While speaking further about his career and how effectively he has handled his business, he attributed his success to hard work and creativity, saying that in order to succeed in life, one had to ensure that they don’t give up until they have achieved their dreams and goals. “Over the years I’ve come to realize that in order for one to be successful at what you do, hard work and creativity should be your watchword. Many young people are distracted by many things, but once you’re focused on achieving your goals and making your dreams come true, success is definitely bound to happen,” he enthused. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Nosakhare Styles releases  Nosakhare Styles releases Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Nosakhare Styles releases  Nosakhare Styles releases ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more