The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Sokoto State Chapter had elected Dr Ben Musa, as the new chairman of the body. Dr Musa, who is the Pastor-in-charge of Christ House, took over from Rev Prof. John Olabode as the Chairman who has been appointed as the PFN National Vice President, North-west zone. Other new officials include; Pastor David Oloruntoba (ECI) as Deputy Chairman, Pastor Uche Onyemerekwe (Living Faith Church) as Secretary, Pastor John Benedict (Christ Power Word City) as Asst. Secretary, Pastor Amos Kato (Love Family Assembly) as Treasurer. Others were: Rev Godwin Adole (Power of Faith Church) as Financial Secretary, Pastor Patrick Okafor (Christian Fellowship), as Welfare, and Pastor Kingsley Udeh (POWA) as PRO. The new Chairman in his inaugural speech his leadership will be servant Leaders after the order of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. He promised to provide spiritual, effective, pragmatic and result-oriented leadership which will be worship to God and service to humanity. “So as to bring transformative change to the Pentecostals in Sokoto, the body of Christ, our State Sokoto and Nigeria.” The Women Fellowship and Youth Wing of the PFN of the State while 19 Local Government Areas’ Representatives of the Directorate of Politics and Governance of the body were inaugurated. Speaking, Dr. Musa described the event as a prophetic shift “for an outpouring of grace on the custodians of ancient prophecies.” He explained that in changing the narrative of Nigeria Politics and turning the tide of Nigerian Church disposition to the same, the Directorate was strategically structured by his Lordship, Bishop Francis Wale Oke, National President of the Pentecostal body. The Inauguration was followed with a day workshop, geared towards equipping the new officials with necessary details as regards the vision, direction, strategies and future plans of the directorate. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details