The Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkall Baba on Wednesday appealed to policemen in the country to shelve the planned nationwide strike. The IGP, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of Southwest, Johnson Kokumo, made the appeal at the Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan during his tour of the police formations in the southwest part of Nigeria. The police boss enjoined the police officers to consider the support of members of the public, who have been complementing, what the police leadership and the Federal Government have done to better the lives of police officers in the country. The DIG said, “I bring good tidings from the Inspector-General of Police who has advised us to eschew all forms of unethical practices and that there should be total conformity to the rule of our engagement.” “We should be professional in all our dealings as we have rules and regulations guarding us. Let me remind you that strike is prohibited in the force and its’ consequences are high.” He also added that “You should remember the slogan that the police is your friend, so, if you engage in the abuse of the public whose taxes are used to pay your salary, you should know that they are watching our backs.” “If we do good, the public will commend you. If we do bad, the public will also condemn us. You should know that the bible has given us an automatic ticket to heaven because it says that blessed are the peacemakers as they will see the kingdom of God.” The police boss also added that ” We are peacemakers and God recognises His. You should not disappoint the people we are assigned to protect.In that case, you should not go on strike and I believe you know the consequences of going on strike.” On what the police leadership has been doing, DIG Kokumo said, “Our salary and emoluments and the actualisation is undergoing processes, so, it is not automatic.” “It has to go through a ministerial process. The President has given the order and no one can counter the order, the government has also given us tax relief, so our salaries are not taxed.” The police boss also said “The IGP has also ordered for training and training of officers. He has equally ordered the recruitment of more policemen; ordered building, rebuilding and refurbishing of Barracks and offices across the country.” “The IGP had ordered the Commissioners of Police across the country to come to the Force Headquarters to collect, kits, accoutrements and other tools to make our job easy.” He advised that “You have put in many years in the force so a little patience will lead us to the promised land. I am telling you that you should not be deceived by disgruntled elements, don’t go on strike as police don’t go on strike.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Don’t go on strike  Don’t go on strike Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Don’t go on strike  Don’t go on strike ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details