The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has retained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 11.5 per cent, as the country grapples with a high inflation rate and fuel scarcity. The CBN, after its Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting on Monday in Abuja, declared that pushing borrowing costs to restrictive levels will not favour Nigeria’s economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. The US Fed last week raised its rates to curb the country’s growing inflation which is above Fed’s two per cent. Nigeria’s inflation is currently at 15.7 per cent which is still above the single-digit targeted by the CBN. The Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Godwin Emefiele said the sanction imposed on Russia by NATO and the USA would have a significant downside risk on the global economy. Emefiele also pointed out that the gains of economic growth that the country recorded as a result of lifting the COVID-19 restrictions have been eroded by the Russian-Ukraine crisis. The CBN Governor blamed the high energy prices experienced in the country on the Russian-Ukraine conflict, explaining that the MPC noted that high energy prices have aggravated Nigeria’s inflation. Emefiele also informed that the poor electricity supply in the country by DISCOS has also compounded the country’s inflationary pressure. According to him, based on these considerations, the MPC retained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 11.5 per cent; asymmetric corridor at +100/–700 basis points around the MPR; Cash Reserve Ratio at 27.5 per cent; and Liquidity Ratio at 30.0 per cent. The CBN Governor explained to journalists that three members of the MPC voted for a 25 basis points increase, one member voted for a 50 basis points increase, and six members voted for the retention of the rates. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…CBN retains MPR  CBN retains MPR Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…CBN retains MPR  CBN retains MPR ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details