There was pandemonium in Itam market in Itu Local Government Area at the weekend when an angry mob defied all entreaties and passed a jungle judgment on a commercial tricycle operator at about 11:00 am on Friday. It was gathered a woman had boarded the tricycle heading towards the ever-bubbling Urua Itam (Itam market), oblivious of the occupants but was robbed of cash as one of the thieves, who posed as a fellow passenger, seized her handbag containing cash and other personal belongings. According to Affiong Bassey, an eyewitness selling petty wares along the Calabar-Itu portion of the market, alarm raised by the woman attracted a quick response from angry traders, who cordoned off the tricycle and captured one of the suspects, while one escaped. She explained that “the shouting noted that she has been robbed at gun-point, and the alarm was followed with instant response from traders, who rounded up one of them, but the second suspect escaped. “Immediately, some ticket collectors in the market called for immediate action to finish the criminal before the Police arrived. “He was bundled inside his brand new Keke (tricycle) and set on fire before a detachment of Police Quick Response team could reach, the Keke and his owner were already up in flames”, she added. Incidences of theft in and around the market area have been rife with traders and Pont of Sales (PoS) operators as major victims. However, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Mr Amiengheme Andrew, has warned against jungle justice on criminal suspects in the state. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Odiko Macdon, in a statement on behalf of the Police chief, frowned at people taking laws into their hands. “Jungle justice has no place in law because nobody has any right to take another man’s life”, he warned and enjoined the civil society to always hand over criminal suspects to security agencies for diligent prosecution. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Mob sets ‘one chance  Mob sets ‘one chance Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Mob sets ‘one chance  Mob sets ‘one chance ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details