The House of Representatives on Wednesday tasked Federal Government with the timely completion of the Hajj Terminal of the Sultan Abubakar III International Airport, Sokoto State. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Balarebe Kakale and 15 others. The lawmakers observed that the Sultan Abubakar III International Airport, Sokoto is the third busiest airport in the North and a major International passenger feeder to Abuja and Kano with its strategic location in the Northwestern aerospace of Nigeria, and plays a strategic role in the growth and economic development of the nation. “The House also notes that the Airport has the largest Hajj Terminal serving three States with additional aviation auxiliary functions to Abuja, Kano, Kaduna and Kebbi Airports and handling over 10,000 International Hajj and Umrah passengers annually. “The House is aware that considering the strategic importance of the Airport, contracts were awarded in 2013 to upgrade and build a standard Hajj terminal as required by National and International Aviation Regulations. “The House is concerned that nine years after the award, the Hajj Terminal is still under construction with dire need of necessary facilities such as access roads, parking spaces, lightings, fences, offices, and other public conveniences. “The House is also concerned that the acute shortage of operational and security staff and personnel, the non-functioning approach Lighting System for night movements, lack of perimeter fencing and other Aviation safety and security infrastructure at the Airport will hamper operations, especially considering the fast-approaching 2022 Hajj. “The House is cognizant that the single lane Airport Access Road needs to be dualized, with street lights as well as security gadgets including patrol vehicles, and other passenger safety measures ought to be installed especially as regards COVID-19 protocols,” he noted. The lawmakers also commended some of the neighbouring communities namely Gugari, Amanawa, Fatakori, Bagarawa, Kolalo, Dan Dogo, Ruggar Kura, Tuntube, Tsehe, Gangarau, Girgiri, Shuni, Ruggar Busau, Madorawa and Gidan Boiyya for their continued support and vigilance in terms of security at the Sultan Abubakar III International Airport, Sokoto State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Reps task FG  Reps task FG Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Reps task FG  Reps task FG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.