Former Chairman, Lagos State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland, has picked the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest the Lagos West Senatorial District seat in the 2023 General Elections, saying he was contesting to alleviate the suffering of the masses in the district because a lot of people prevailed on him to go for the seat. Adewale made this known on Wednesday, while addressing newsmen in his office in Ikeja, saying that PDP had a very bright chance to win elections in the state in 2023 with the recent defection of some people into the party. The party chieftain, who had earlier contested for the seat in 2015, however, said he was not desperate and but even ready to sacrifice this ambition for anybody in the interest of unity and cohesion in Lagos PDP. “I am not desperate at all unlike before. I am ready to even sacrifice this ambition for anybody in the interest of unity and cohesion in Lagos PDP. “I thought someone should be a voice for the masses and the less privileged and that is why I am out to contest the seat. We need to go in to get a good representation at the Senate because the people of Lagos West are not getting such now. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is not about sharing motorcycles but to have laws and policies that can affect people in millions. People of Lagos West are not feeling the impact of the government,” he said. Otunba Adewale decried the alleged imbalance in the current constitution of Lagos State PDP executives, the fallout of the recently held state congress, saying that would affect the party’s chances to get to the Lagos Government House and win other seats in the 2023 election, but quickly urged the party leadership must come together and harmonise. “It is a matter of unity and cohesion that I am fighting for. The more PDP comes together, the easier to win election in 2023. We need to change APC in Lagos across all levels. “My fighting with those who have hijacked the party structure is not personal, I am only poised about PDP winning this election and we can only get there if we come together. It shouldn’t be the winner takes all. We will lose elections. “It is clear that no single bloc in Lagos PDP can win elections alone. We have to harmonise to win. I am fighting because I want us to do the right thing that will give us victory in the 2023 polls. “A single bloc cannot even mobilise party agents to man all the polling units, and moment we don’t have this, we will fail again. We have to come together and that’s why I stop fighting Chief Bode George, the leader of the party,” he said. “Our people in Lagos are suffering, we have the chance to rescue them now. My view is that we have to harmonise and share positions so that PDP won’t be working against one another,” he added. Adewale, however, urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free, fair, transparent and credible elections in the state, come 2023. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 2023: Ex-Lagos PDP chairman, Segun Adewale, goes for Senate seat Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 2023: Ex-Lagos PDP chairman, Segun Adewale, goes for Senate seat ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details