Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has affirmed that the Yoruba race is a harbinger and architect of glass technology before later being discovered by the colonial master. The monarch who made the affirmation at the official unveiling of the Igbo Olokun Heritage Site at Ile-Ife in Osun State argued that African countries are exceptional in technology. He explained that “Young people go to institutions to learn about physics, chemistry and other sciences, but the main practical sciences have been well established here in Ife over 4,000 years ago and our ancestors have actually come up with initiatives of material science. So basically, we can call them material scientists.” They will tell us that they are the ones that discovered chemistry, physics, but all that is not true because there is evidence here now. So, we in Ife on behalf of the entire Yoruba people and on behalf of the entire black people, it has actually been established today and nobody can prove otherwise that we were the first material scientists as far as physics and chemistry are concerned. “We have seen glass crucibles here dated over 4,000 years and our ancestors were passing it down from generation to generation and we can see it evidently. What we are using as a symbol for the Yoruba people was first of all dug here.” “It has now been established that technology is behind the glass. We can see today now that we can’t even do without glass technology.” “The way we drive our cars, that’s the windshield that is making us have visualization but they would probably think that the technology didn’t start from us (we the black people). It has now been proven that we are the first to do it in the world, so, it calls for celebration, not only for, Ife but also for the entire black race.” “Truly speaking, this is the cradle of civilization and the western world has been trying to dig deep to find out how this whole thing started. They came and told us that they were the ones that discovered River Niger in the early 16th century, the Portuguese. River Niger has been there for many centuries, thanks to our ancestors.” “But during the research, they went to a market in Kartungua of the old Oyo Empire and they saw some very special objects in the early 18th century, specifically, Richard Ladnah put it in his journal which is all over the museums globally now, that he saw something in Katangua, old Oyo empire and everybody said that you can only find it where all of us came from which is the city of Ife. He traced it back here in 1830 and was marvelled to see a very broad-based industry rolling out glass technology in millions and it is being spread across the world.” “They started doing that research further. Another set came in, Germans came in the early 19th century, Leo Fibohnior came in 1910 and they kept digging and that was when they saw the symbol of Yoruba people which is the Ori Olokun. Some of the first sets were taken from Wumonije compound all the way to the British Museum, but this was freshly discovered here and it is actually linked to bronze technology, Iron technology which is the Iron and Bronze age, all the way to using Aluminum as a technology, using Copper, using Gold. “The Malian empire, the Songai empire headed by Mansa Munsa, we have all seen them coming here to see the way and manner our ancestors were material scientists. So, it calls for celebration for the entire continent of Africa. Oba Ogunwusi added that the Yoruba kingdom is making history in the world through culture and anthropological artwork, showcasing cultural heritage. He pointed out that, “arts and culture are significant to every black man living on the surface of the earth because it’s been proven globally that civilization indeed started from the black and the cradle of civilization has come to stay in Ife as the young generation will come to learn from the history of their forefathers through the exhibition of Artwork,” he concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Yoruba race is architect  Yoruba race is architect Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Yoruba race is architect  Yoruba race is architect ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team