The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) Kwara state office has trained 50 university graduates and existing entrepreneurs on Enterprise and Finance Counselling Clinic (NDE-efcc) programme. The Kwara State coordinator of the NDE, Engineer Aba Timothy (JP), stated during the flag off of the training programme in Ilorin on Friday. The NDE boss, who spoke on behalf of the Director-General, said the five-day training programme was designed to equip the beneficiaries seeking to embark on enterprises creation and those that are already in the entrepreneurial business with the necessary administrative, managerial and technical skills to run their individual enterprise. The coordinator said that the NDE- efcc training was an opportunity for the beneficiaries to be potential billionaires of a lifetime with the nature of training modules and facilitators at the training. He also said that he was optimistic about the entrepreneurial spirit of the training at the diagnostic clinic. Some of the beneficiaries, who expressed appreciation during the programme, said that they expect to be empowered to excel in their areas of business. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NDE trains 50  NDE trains 50 Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NDE trains 50  NDE trains 50 ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team