Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State has adjourned till April 20, a divorce suit brought before it by a woman, Ruth Ogala, against her husband, Mathew Ogala. Ruth, who dragged her husband to court, alleged that he was a brute. She explained that her husband beat her at every given opportunity, not sparing her even when she was pregnant. According to her, her husband sometimes beat her with a cutlass. The plaintiff added that the defendant drank himself to stupour every day, adding that he also smoked Indian hemp. Ruth stated that her husband often misbehaved when he was drunk and that he almost beat her father when he was once in such state. The plaintiff further said that she shouldered the responsibility of running the home because the defendant cared less about her welfare and that of their three children. Remi told the court her husband had made a mess of her life and thus prayed the court to put an end to their relationship. Mathew refused to come to court despite being served court summonses. Ruth giving her evidence said: “My lord, my husband has proved to be irresponsible since the outset of our relationship. “He impregnated me while we were courting but refused to carry out the traditional marital rites as was expected of him. “We never held the formal marriage ceremony, while he didn’t give my parents a dime as my dowry. “We started living from hand to mouth immediately we got married because my husband is not judicious with his spending. “He starves me and our three children and cares less if we live or die. “My lord, I shoulder the responsibility of feeding my family with the meager gain I make from my business. “What my husband does with his income is drinking and smoking. “He can drink a barrel of alcohol and then starts to misbehave when he’s drunk. “My husband beats me to a pulp when he is drunk. He beats me almost every day. “My lord, he didn’t spare me while I was pregnant. I almost lost my second pregnancy when he beat me with a cutlass. He has refused to learn his lesson. He still beats me with cutlass. “He displayed the nuisance in him when he almost beat my father after he got drunk,” the plaintiff stated. Ruth added that, “Mathew is a bad influence to our children. He smokes Indian hemp in their presence. He fills the whole of our apartment with the smell. “My lord, I don’t want our children to turn drug addicts. They are the only consolation I have in our marriage. “I appeal to this honourable court to end our relationship and grant me custody of our three children. “I further pray the court to enforce it that he becomes responsible for their upkeep,” she begged. The court president, Mrs S.M Akintayo, after hearing the plaintiff, ordered that a fresh court hearing be served the defendant and adjourned the case. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details