The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, has congratulated the new National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, on his election at the party’s national convention on Saturday. Hon Gbajabiamila also congratulated other elected members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) such as the Deputy National Chairman (North), Deputy National Chairman (South), the National Secretary, the six vice-chairmen, among others. The Speaker said Senator Adamu’s emergence through consensus arrangement proved that the APC remained one big family where its members resolved their differences amicably. Speaker Gbajabiamila tasked the new chairman and the other members of the NWC to put heads together to transform the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Hon. Gbajabiamila expressed optimism in the ability of the new National Chairman and his NWC members to rally around APC members and other Nigerians to take the party to victory. He said with the calibre of the people elected as APC leaders at the national level, the party was in safe hands. The Speaker wished the APC National Chairman and the NWC members a successful tenure even as he tasked them further on uniting members of the party nationwide. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Gbajabiamila congratulates Senator Adamu, other elected APC NWC members ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details