The Comptroller General of Customs Strike Force, Team A unit on Thursday revealed that it’s officers seized a Dangote truck loaded with 250 bags of banned imported rice and other items worth N373,629,700 within four weeks at different locations in Ogun and Lagos States. Addressing newsmen in Lagos on Thursday, Controller of the CGC Strike Force Team A, Deputy Comptroller Mohammed Sani Yusuf explained that amongst the seized items include three 20ft containers of Timber, 1000 bags of 50kg rice, 3,143 pieces of used tyres, 320 bale’s of used clothing, 44 sacks of Donkey hides, and 137.3kg of Indian Hemp. According to Controller Yusuf, “I am happy to state that within a period of four weeks, the reconstituted Strike Force Team ‘A’ has collected the sum of N648,300,986.00 as revenue through demand notices. It also made seizures worth a total duty paid value (DPV) of N373,629,700. “I want to reiterate, very sternly that we don’t believe in settling down before executing our task in a sensitive assignment as this. Smugglers who thought they could take advantage of the recent changes to carry out their unlawful trade were disappointed. “it is pertinent for me to advise importers, licensed customs agents and freight forwarders to imbibe and always operate on good business etiquette by making sincere declarations all the time. With us on the ground, there will be no hiding place for those wishing to cut corners. They should always acquaint themselves and be guided by policies of the Federal Government and be abreast with the import and export prohibition lists. We will not take ignorance as an excuse under any guise. “We are working 24 hours from day one and they have us to contend with any time they dare to carry out their illicit activities either at night or in the day. | am happy to declare that our operatives are relentless and uncompromising as far as this task is concerned. “This is just the beginning of heated anti-smuggling action which we have embarked upon in the entire South West area of the country. We are ready to run smugglers out of town with the full support and encouragement of our CGC, Col Hameed Ibrahim Ali, Rtd. This task is aimed at protecting our national economy and preventing dangerous importation as well as exportation that contradicts the law. “Our patrolling and interdiction capacity is recharged for round the clock operation against smugglers and anyone attempting to circumvent the due process of import and export.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Customs seize rice-laden Dangote truck Customs seize rice-laden Dangote truck  Customs seize rice-laden Dangote truck  Customs seize rice-laden Dangote truck ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity