There was palpable anxiety at the Eagle Square, the venue of the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as rumours swelled among delegates that some governors may try to upturn the consensus agreement reached on the national chairman position. Speculation was rife Saturday evening that the lengthy delay in the take-off of the event was due to the threat by some governors to ditch the agreement reached on Senator Abdulahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the post and instead were poised to direct their state delegates to vote for another person. There was also the rumour that some were toying with the idea of staging a walkout in a mimic of the 2014 experience of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Some suggested that more than three hours after President Buhari Buhari was scheduled to arrive at the venue, the normally very prompt President was yet to leave the presidential villa because he was trying to end every dissent before heading to the venue. As at the time of this report,  delegates, party supporters and observers were still anticipating the arrival of the President while being entertained by artistes from different sections of the country. At about 6.50 pm, Governor Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State announced to the delegates that the party was still working to reach a consensus on all positions so that there would be no need for election. The governor affirmed that it was the desire of President Buhari. He said agreement had been reached on at least 20 posts. Also speaking, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, appealed to the delegates to exercise patience. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details