Kano State Government has dismissed from service four staff of the state Bureau for Land Management for selling public landed properties, forging documents, issuing false cadastral information and falsification of official records. According to a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, on Tuesday indicated that the dismissed officers are Abdulmuminu Usman Magami, Senior Survey Assistant on Salary Grade Level 06 and Abdullahi Nuhu Idris, Senior Land Officer on Salary Grade Level 10. Others are Audu Abba Aliyu, Press Attendant on Salary Level 05 and Baba Audu, Assistant Chief Land Officer on Salary Grade Level 13. Garba said the officials were sacked based on the recommendation of an Investigative Committee set up by the government, following complaints labelled against them, and which found them guilty of the offences. The commissioner however disclosed that their dismissal was in accordance with Civil Service Rule No.04406, adding that the decision was to serve as a deterrent to others. He then warned that the State Government “will not condone any misconduct from any civil servant.” He said, “Therefore, all government employees are expected to carry out their responsibilities honestly, diligently, effectively and in accordance with the civil service rules and regulations.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.