The Monze Urban Local Court in Zambia has ordered a man from Monze to pay K12, 000 to a woman after he impregnated her while they were cohabiting in 2020. According to Zambian Observer, Simbiya Hamachila of Chibuyu Compound sued Aaron Chama of Manungu Compound, demanding K20, 000 as compensation for the damages. Simbiya told the court that Aaron used to cohabit with her daughter and provided her with material support; a period during which she became pregnant and gave birth. She stated that Aaron was called to discuss payments for the damages, but that he refused to agree to the arrangement, which spurred her decision to come to court. Aaron admitted having an affair with Simbiya’s daughter, but stated that it only lasted for two days, because his girlfriend always chased him away whenever he went to visit her. He stated that he was later informed that he had impregnated her. According to him, he was initially doubtful of the claim, but that he later accepted paternity of the child after he saw that he resembled him. Senior Local Magistrate, Hellen Moonga, ordered Aaron to pay K12, 000 in monthly installments of K500, starting with a initial payment of K2,500 on the 31st of March. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95 per cent of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200, 000 barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell, to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rising. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable!” Elumelu urged Nigerians to be more vocal and demand accountability from government as the 2023 general election draw closer. He added that only leaders who can deliver on their mandates can change Nigeria’s trajectory. “Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development,” he said.      ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team