The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Iyorchia Ayu has described the All Progressive Congress (APC) as a “special multipurpose vehicle” hurriedly put together to defraud Nigerians. The National Chairman who spoke with newsmen through the Party’s Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba in Lokoja over the weekend stated that the performance of APC in the past six years has clearly revealed the party as a party that had nothing to offer Nigerian. “The level of poverty unleashed on Nigerians in the past six years is unprecedented in the history of Nigeria and our people are tired and have unequivocally resolved to show them the way out in 2023. According to him, “the result of the recent bye-election has clearly pointed to the fact that Nigerians have unanimously rejected APC and PDP us well-positioned to take over and restore decency back into governance in the country come 2023.” “You can see for yourself the level of insecurities the country has been thrown into, PDP is coming in 2023 to right all the wrongs APC has thrown at us as a nation”. Asked to comment on the question of rotation, he said that the party as a family has not decided to add that when the time comes there would be no controversy about which direction the party would toe. However, in his reaction, the state Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Alhaji Abdullahi Bello described PDP as an assemblage of ungodly people who deserved no response from any serious quarter. According to him, “PDP had the opportunity for sixteen years to put things right but squandered and destroyed everything including themselves. What moral justification does the party has to talk about a party through which God has used President Muhamadu Buhari to reposition the country towards greatness.” As said earlier, “PDP stands for destruction, and they lived up to the true meaning of their name by destroying everything including the lives of their unborn children,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.