Hours to the convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a former member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Dapo Lam-Adesina, has given reasons why Oyo State should get the highest of positions zoned to the South West. He premised his argument that allowing Oyo to have top positions will put the party in good stead to win the 2023 governorship election in the state. While noting that other States in the South-West, except Oyo, had APC governors, Lam-Adesina urged the governors to accord Oyo a pride of place in the spirit of fairness and equity. Lam-Adesina, in the statement, said: “With due respect to our leaders in the southwest, I want to implore them to allow justice and fairness to prevail in the selection of those who will fill national leadership positions of our party during next Saturday’s convention. “When Ekiti didn’t have an APC governor, all the leaders unanimously zoned the party’s deputy national chairman (south) to the state. It was the highest position zoned to the South West. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Also, Ondo, Ekiti’s neighbour got the national vice-chairmanship slot which should have gone to either Lagos/Ogun or Oyo/Osun zone. “His Excellency Chief Segun Oni was deputy national chairman while Chief Pius Akinyelure was national vice-chairman. “When Chief Segun Oni resigned, former governor, His Excellency Niyi Adebayo replaced him, despite the fact that Ekiti had won the 2018 election. “Chief Pius Akinyelure was replaced by his kinsman – Chief Kole Oluwajana. “I have taken time to remind us about all this in order to let our leaders see reason why Oyo should be allowed to take the highest position zoned to the South-West. “We are working on winning the 2023 election in Oyo and having a top position zoned to us will put us in good stead. “From Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to Vice President, H.E (Professor) Yemi Osinbajo, Baba Bisi Akande, Rt.Hon Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, H.E (Dr) Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), H.E Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), H.E (Chief) Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), H.E (Alhaji) Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), and H.E (Chief) Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), we appeal that our state should be allowed to fill the position.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs APC convention: Be fair to Oyo State, Lam-Adesina urges South-West govs Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa APC convention: Be fair to Oyo State, Lam-Adesina urges South-West govs ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details