Authorities at the British High Commission in Nigeria have issued a statement saying that the United Kingdom (UK) has not suspended its student, work and family visas for Nigerian applicants. It clarified that it was only its “priority visa service” that was temporarily suspended. A statement made available to Nigerian Tribune by the High Commission stated that: “Following the statement issued by the British High Commission in Nigeria on 15 March “temporary suspension of priority visas for student work and family applications”, we are aware of reporting circulating in the Nigerian media and online that the UK has suspended student, work and family visas for Nigerian applicants. “This is not true. It is still possible to apply for any category of UK visa in the usual way on gov.uk and via our Visa Applications Centres (VAC) in Nigeria. “Our VACs remain open and customers are welcome to apply for a standard visa of any category in the usual manner, this includes student, family, work and visit visas. “However, due to a reprioritisation of resources in response to the humanitarian crisis arising from the invasion of Ukraine, the UK has temporarily suspended its priority visa service.” The British High Commission in Nigeria added that, “As our 15 March statement, made clear, this temporary suspension only applies to the UKVI’s expedited, added-value ‘Priority’ and ‘Super Priority’ visa services. “This suspension is to enable the UKs global visa operation to prioritise applications for the new Ukraine Family Scheme. “This decision to suspend priority visa services is also clearly stated on UKVI’s guidance page, which sets out the latest decision waiting times for visa applicants outside the UK. “On behalf of UKVI, the British High Commission in Nigeria would like to apologise for any inconvenience this development has caused. “The British High Commission in Nigeria will issue an updated statement the moment ‘Priority’ and ‘Super Priority’ visa services resume.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity