Operatives of the Delta Police Command have arrested a female member of a gang, Aisha Hassan, which specialises in drugging commercial motorcycle riders and making away with their automobiles. The female suspect, Aisha Hassan, was arrested after a complaint was lodged by a commercial motorcycle rider (names withheld) that he had fallen victim to the gang in Asaba. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, in a statement on Saturday, said after the arrest of Aisha Hassan, efforts were still on to recover the stolen motorcycle. “Following a report received by the Area Commander Asaba that on the 23/2/2022 at about 1430hhrs, an Okada rider (Name withheld) carried a lady named Aisha Hassan and one other who pretended to be passengers to Kenu Guest House located at Bonsaac. On getting to the hotel, the victim stated that the lady brought out drinks for them to drink unknown to him that sleeping pills and suspected hard drugs had been added to the drink. “After drinking, he slept off and to his greatest surprise, when he woke up, he discovered that his red colour unregistered KC Sanya motorcycle with Engine No. 162FMJ510828953, Chasis No. IPCKL11M1018611 valued at N330,000.00 had been stolen by the suspects. “The Area commander Asaba, ACP Nuhu Hamidu, detailed police detectives to investigate and ensure that the said suspects are arrested. “Consequently, the team went on an intelligence-led investigation and arrested one of the suspects named Aisha Hassan. “Investigation later revealed that her gang member took the motorcycle to an unknown destination. “Investigation is ongoing with a view to possibly recover the said motorcycle and arrest the fleeing suspect,” Edafe noted. He quoted CP Ari Muhammed Ali, as urging members of the public to help with any useful information that will lead to the arrest of the suspect and also recover the said motorcycle. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more