Former Commissioner for Environment in Bayelsa State who is among those shortlisted for an award of the rank of SAN in 2021, Professor Sylvanus Abila, was allegedly killed on Thursday by a reckless truck driver while fixing his vehicle along the East-West road. The actual cause of Prof Abila’s death has not been made clear but according to sources, the truck driver ran him over, killing him instantly. Dr Abila, in his lifetime, served as commissioner during the administration of Senator Seriake Dickson, pioneer Chairman of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Yenagoa Branch and was among those shortlisted for the award of the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) in 2021. Nigerian Tribune further learnt that he is a former Head of Law Department and was until his death an Assistant Professor in the Faculty of Law, Niger Delta University where he championed the course Commercial Law. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The sad news of the learned professor’s death was made known on Facebook by another Law School teacher, Sylvester Udemezue, who said “the world is too much with us! Prof Sylvanus Abila of the Law Faculty, Niger Delta University Wilberforce Island, Bayelsa State was not even allowed to say goodbye and had no time to adjust to the idea that his loved ones would not be with him anymore. “On 23 March 2022, a careless trailer/truck just came from nowhere and took the life out of a most distinguished Law Teacher and Creative Legal Icon. A Teacher of Teachers. Prof Abila is dead! A quintessential academic. “Great Legal Luminary, Amiable Learned Friend, and Devoted Bar Man. Pioneer Chairman of NBA, Yenagoa Branch, he was among those shortlisted for the award of the rank of SAN in 2021. “Now, Prof Sylvanus Àbila has been caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, once again illustrating the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life. Rest in peace, sir. We love you. I love you. Adieu.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details