A civil engineer, Godwin Nwali,  has approached an Igando Customary Court in Lagos, Lagos State, seeking that his marriage to his wife, Nsika be dissolved. Godwin alleged that she is ill-tempered and denied him sex. The plaintiff accused his wife of denying him sex. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Godwin also added that she watched pornography and was involved in extra-marital affairs. “My wife does not care about me. She’s irresponsible and chats with different men on Facebook. “I’ve also caught her watching pornography on her phone,” he said. In her defense, the respondent, Nsika, a petty trader denied all the allegations. “I am a responsible woman and wife. I take care of my home. I am not a nuisance as he alleges. I do not engage in extra-marital affairs. It is against our tradition in Akwa Ibom. “I am not ill-tempered. My husband is the violent one. I am the one responsible for the feeding of the home and payment of our children’s school fees,” she said. She stated that her husband lied that she denied him sex. “When I gave birth to our child, I had a vaginal tear and I was advised to stay away from sex for some time. “We were invited to the village to settle our differences but my husband refused to go. I am not against our union being dissolved. I am no longer interested in the marriage,” she said. The court president, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, adjourned the case. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95 per cent of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200, 000 barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell, to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rising. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable!” Elumelu urged Nigerians to be more vocal and demand accountability from government as the 2023 general election draw closer. He added that only leaders who can deliver on their mandates can change Nigeria’s trajectory. “Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development,” he said.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team