The civil aviation industry plays a key role in the upstream and downstream sectors of the global economy. It reduces the cost of trade and facilitates tourism and the smooth operations of supply chains across continents. Aside from its role in fostering the flow of goods, people, capital, technology and ideas, the airline industry is also praised for its complementarity and substitutability with other forms of transportation, thereby promoting integration and rapid development on a planetary scale. There is a consensus of ideas that developing countries acknowledge the need to exploit the enormous opportunities that the airline industry offers. Nigeria’s case is however quite different as the industry has been marred by a series of irregularities in recent times. In the last three and half years, the Nigerian aviation industry has been prone to inconsistent policies as reflected in  the proposed concession of  the international airport, the Aviation and Aerospace University and, more recently, the flagrant violation of the Public Procurement Act. Of particular note is the alleged violation of the Public Procurement Act in respect of the award of contracts for janitorial and cleaning services, which essentially falls within the purview of the Federal Airport Authority( FAAN). The aviation ministry has allegedly chosen to eclipse the functions of FAAN by bringing in some unfamiliar men and allies into the industry, albeit without corresponding capacity. Some officials even went ahead, may be through connivance, to assert a no-objection gesture, whereas no advertisement in that regard was placed. Then one begins to question if they really understand the provisions of the Public Procurement Act (14)  2007. Explicitly, a “Certificate of No Objection” means “the document evidencing and authenticating that due process and the letters of this Act have been followed in the conduct of a procurement proceeding and allowing for the procuring entity to enter into contract or effect payments to contractors or suppliers from the Treasury.”  How does one explain a situation where some set of contractors who had pending contracts were not disengaged, but others were allegedly brought in for the execution of the same contracts? Aside flagrant abuse of the Act, which carries consequences, another salient issue of concern is the insecurity that these may pose to the nation at large. For instance, one of the subtle ways through which insecurity may surface is through domestic workers, who are not only susceptible to such, but more dangerously open to it if not security profiled. This may appear simple, but painstaking care has to be taken to avert such. Globally, the standard for awarding contracts includes security profiles but in Nigeria’s case, things seem to be determined by the “powers from above”. However, if we are serious enough as a people, we must realise that it is time to put round pegs in round holes. We must ensure that national development and prosperity is not sacrificed on the altar of political affiliations, nepotism and self- aggrandisement. In less than two years, the current administration will wind up. What should we expect of the aviation ministry’s concession plans, the proposed University of Aviation and Aerospace, and the national carrier?  The time remaining may not be sufficient to address all the proposed projects. The aviation ministry needs to reposition the industry to function effectively. The non-appointment of a board of directors for over three and half years and the practical eclipse of several regulatory agencies may further cripple the industry. Adetunji writes in from  Lagos. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…On infelicities  On infelicities Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…On infelicities  On infelicities ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details