The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) is seeking improved access to funding for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the export sector in Nigeria. Speaking on Thursday in Abuja at a one-day Sensitization programme for 185 SMEs, the Executive Director of NEPC, Dr Ezra Yakusak said, empowering SMEs for export was key to the diversification of the country’s economy. According to him “without demur, the Council is fully aware of challenges faced by exporters in Financing their export business; most exporting businesses have gone moribund as a result of not being able to access credit facilities, loans or grants to finance their export venture. “Many prospecting to foray into export business have suffered a similar fate. The Export Development Fund (EDF) and the Export Expansion Grant (EEG) offered to prospective exporters and seasoned exporters respectively by the Council are two major incentives being offered by the NEPC to ensure that Nigerian exportable products are competitive overseas. “However, since the EEG is a post-shipment finance, exporters need more access to pre-shipment Financing and credit facilities, which could assist in strengthening their financial base and ramp up production, and provide additional working capital.” Yakusak encouraged the SMEs that the “recent CBN intervention, especially the RT200 export repatriation incentive scheme is expected to provide an additional source of funding for our emerging and active exporters.” He said the “programme is specifically packed and the resource persons have been carefully selected from among the cream of experts, in order not only to hand-hold but to piggyback our MSMEs to compete with their counterparts in the international market.” Also speaking, the Director, Product Development Department of the NEPC, Mr William Ezeagu said the programme will create a platform for all stakeholders in the export community to share experiences and exchange ideas on contemporary issues affecting the non-oil export sector of the economy. “It is also my belief that this meeting will generate new mindsets towards accessing financial facilities from banks, as well as address the challenges facing export business in Nigeria,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity