The former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, has said he wants to become President of Nigeria, come 2023 in order to salvage the country. He stated this yesterday when he held a meeting with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members of the House of Representatives. The meeting took place at the Wuse II residence of House Minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu had in attendance many House of Representatives members of the party. Atiku while addressing the parliamentarians on his 2023 Presidential ambition, praised the legislative arm of government for its role in uniting Nigeria’s diverse ethnic background, saying Nigerians owe the legislative arm of government a massive appreciation. According to the former Vice President; “I thank you all for what you have been doing. Your job as a legislature is the most important one. Why? You make the laws that govern both the executive and the judicial arms of government. That is why I believe the most sensitive organ of democracy is the legislature. “I want to commend you for uniting and protecting the interest of the party at the National Assembly. I understand how tasking being a member of the parliament in Nigeria, especially at this period can be. You are closer to the people than the President. You also generously sponsor our party at the grassroots. One thing that also impresses me is that despite being a diverse party, the PDP caucus has never been this united. “I have seen you fighting and protecting the interest of Nigerians and upholding the rule of law. That is why I admire you a lot. “Our party is truly blessed to have you. You will be the one that will transit our party from being the minority party to the majority party. PDP will be the majority party in the next National Assembly and we will deliver progress and development for the people. “I recognize your immense influence on our great party and my respect for you is beyond measure. That is why I choose you to be among the first set of people that I will be meeting to personally declare my intention to contest for the President of Nigeria in 2023. “Therefore, I humbly present myself to you and seek your support to win our party’s Presidential ticket.” That said outlined reasons he is gunning to be President of Nigeria even as he aimed a veiled dig at the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, blaming it for the vast challenges facing the country today. “We are in one of the trying times in our history as a country. With the increase in poverty, joblessness, insecurity, inflation, economic recession and serious division, there has never been a time Nigeria needs credible leadership than now. “PDP is in a better position to offer Nigerians that desirable and competent leadership. That is what I want to offer. I want to offer a solution to our problems, but we have to do it together. “I have experience at the highest and lowest levels. As the Vice President of Nigeria, I ensure many progressive and national transformations and constitutional law. As a businessman, I have solved grassroots problems and provided jobs for thousands of people. “I am designing a policy document that will guide effectively in the implementation of our blueprint. The policy document is now undergoing review. I want to work with you, to collect your feedback and input. “When we get to power, I want to work in harmony with the National Assembly and protect constitutional independence and freedom. Most of the changes we want to bring require constitutional adjustment and that can not happen without cooperation with the National Assembly. “I want to ensure a smooth and careful legislative process. I will give my best and work with politicians and great resource people in our party. I have the mental and physical energy to serve our party to the fullest. “Above all, it is my passion for the progress of this country that drives my quest for the Presidency of this country,” he added. He further expressed confidence in the ability of his party to coast home to victory, He sounded very sure about the chances of PDP winning the upcoming 2023 polls, when he said;
“since the last election, we have built an even better support base in this country. Nigerians have more reasons to vote for us now. The momentum has been built already and we should not let them down. I have received numerous calls from well-meaning Nigerian groups and individually asking me to contest again. That is why I feel even more confident that this time around, victory is ours not mine only. “This is the last chance for this country to get it right. Any failure to elect the right leaders now means Nigeria is doomed. That is why this election is not for us or our personal interest, it is about salvaging the country and I want to seek your support to help me do that. “We owe a debt to this nation. Despite all abilities we have, I feel unfulfilled when I seat back and see how Nigerians travel to have to assess to basic life requirements. Nigerians are in desperate need of us and that is why we have to offer them the best. “And this time more than ever before, we need a leader with verse experience who will fight for the people and a President who can bring this country together. I guarantee you that I have what it take to be that kind of President. Therefore I seek your support. “This victory of our party depends on the candidate we produce at the primary elections at all levels. That Is why we must choose those that can easily win at the secondary election. “Indeed you are critical stakeholders in our party and great influencers at the primary elections, I need your support and we will do it together. I want to know your terms and conditions, and am willing to commit and support your aspirations as well,” he added. Responding on behalf of his colleagues, Hon. Elumelu thanked Atiku for interfacing with the lawmakers, describing the meeting as a step in the right direction. Speaking on behalf of his fellow members said; “You happen to be the second person out of the Presidential hopeful to see us and ask for our support. But what we have always said is that we are not happy with the way and manners we are not trying to unite ourselves. What is important is that we must unite ourselves to take over from the APC-led government. “They (APC) have corrupted this nation and the only way we can get that power back, which Nigerians are hoping and praying that God will answer their prayer through PDP is by us getting united. “We need to avoid any form of assault or attack on ourselves. It will not help us. Sometimes we read in the newspapers where people from the same party are fighting themselves. I do not think that it will be a very healthy development for us to gather the momentum that we require to take over. So I believe that it is a unity that we will need to get power. “God gives power to whomever he wishes. You have humbly come here and you have so humbled yourself before us. One way or the other, you have played a critical role in our individual lives or collectively. “APC came with all manners of lies. They came that they will turn one naira to a dollar; they came that they will give us quality education; they came that they will guarantee the security of lives and property; they came that they will write off all our debts. But today, they are trying to mortgage our country with so many loans. “Today, our farmers can no longer go to the farms because of insecurity. Corruption has become the order of the day under the leadership of the APC-led federal government. Our roads are not something you ply, therefore you find everybody running towards the airports. And even the airports despite all efforts in checking the rot in the aviation industry, they have refused to listen. Is that how we want the country to continue? The answer is no. “I want to assure you that at the appointed time, the caucus that you know will speak with one voice and our voice will be heard,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.