 The 70 rules of International women equality were carved out of the rights of women globally. In our world today, women have always remained the minority and suppressed gender in society. Society perceives women as the weaker ones in a marriage, at offices, in the country. The purpose of the rules is to emphasize in a lighter way the rights of women that shouldn’t be ignored. A critical look at these rules will give us an insight into what occurs in our society. For instance, Rule 8 states that women should earn the same pay as men. If you think deeply, these are the issues in the world. Also, Rule 30 talks about considering women as baby-making machines. This resulted from a reflective piece I wrote, “Body Trapped in Marriage: A Perspective of the Indigenous-Igbo Nigerian,” where I elaborated on how men do not consider how many children their wives want to have and how they outrightly state that they want to have 5 children. These and many more rules should be taken seriously. Rule 1: Do not disrespect any woman Rule 2: Do not body shame any woman Rule 3: Do not sexually abuse any woman Rule 4: Do not physically abuse any woman Rule 5: Do not emotionally abuse any woman Rule 6: Do not deprive a woman of education Rule 7: Treat women equally as men Rule 8: Do not underpay any woman in any office environment Rule 9: Do not discriminate against any woman Rule 10: Do not call any woman “ugly” Rule 11: Do not deny any woman from attaining political offices Rule 12: Do not prevent women from owning properties Rule 13: Do not deny women access to good healthcare Rule 14: Do not disrespect the body of a woman Rule 15: Do not prevent women from voting Rule 16: Do not stop women from making decisions Rule 17: Do not force a woman into marriage Rule 18: Do not decide for a woman the number of children they should have Rule 19: Do not slut shame a woman because of how she dresses Rule 20: Do not force women into abortion Rule 21: Do not force women in sterilization Rule 22: Do not prevent women from protesting Rule 23: Do not insult any unmarried woman Rule 24: Do not always blame a divorced woman for a broken marriage Rule 25: Love women with a passion Rule 26: Do not take pictures and videos of a woman without her consent Rule 27: Do not drug the drink of a woman Rule 28: Do not prevent a woman from speaking up Rule 29: Do not see a woman as a sexual object Rule 30: Do not consider women as baby-making machines Rule 31: Do not rape any woman Rule 32: Do not subject women to a series of virginity tests Rule 33: Do not restrict the movement of women Rule 34: Do not prevent women from having an international passport Rule 35: Do not call women prostitutes because of their haircuts Rule 36: Do not call women lesbians because of their leg chains Rule 37: Do not call women uncultured because they can’t cook Rule 38: Do not call women useless because they gave birth to only female children Rule 39: Do not blame women for any childlessness in the family Rule 40: Do not shave the hair of a woman when her husband dies Rule 41: Do not discriminate against any woman with a disability Rule 42: Always treat women and men equal Rule 43: Do not torture or persecute women because of their skin colour Rule 44: Do not think that an ambitious woman is a complicated woman Rule 45: Do not think that women end up in the kitchen Rule 46: Do not take advantage of vulnerable women Rule 47: Do not demand or request sexual favours from any woman Rule 48: Do not kidnap any woman Rule 49: Do not murder any woman IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Rule 50: Do not sell women for sex Rule 51: Do not prevent any woman from expressing herself Rule 52: Encourage a healthy and peaceful environment where women live Rule 53: Do not discriminate against any woman because of her gender identity. Rule 54: Do not ignore the efforts of a woman Rule 55: Do not embarrass a woman in public Rule 56: Do not mock a woman raped Rule 57: Provide women with their basic needs Rule 58: Every woman needs to be independent Rule 59: Do not see women as a punching bag Rule 60: Take the right of a woman to own lands as an international right Rule 61: Allow women to take leadership and peacemaking roles in the country Rule 62: Prevent all forms of marginalization done against women Rule 63: Elimination of genital mutilation Rule 64: Prevent judicial stereotypes Rule 65: Transform gender stereotypes Rule 66: Empower women and break the bias in the country Rule 67: Support educational, economic, social and health opportunities involving women Rule 68: Organize campaigns and workshops to spread women’s equality Rule 69: Reform discriminatory laws and policies that affect women Rule 70: Women make the world a better place; celebrate them The rules are a way of encouraging society to advocate for the rights of women. The rules are easy to memorize and recite to your male children, students, friends, and husbands. The rules I stated for the rights of women can become a reality when both genders come together to achieve them. The rules are also a way of reemphasizing the rights of women as March 8 approaches. March 8 is the celebration of International Women’s Rights. However, these rules should not stop their purpose after March 8; they should last forever. If you come across the 70 Rules of International Women Equality, I encourage us all to spread the word about the importance of these rules and respect women’s rights in the world.  Summer Okibe (she, her), L.M Candidate, University of Victoria ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.