Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested a 52-year-old father of four children, Okeke Adolphus Anayochukwu, with black liquid cocaine at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja. Okeke was arrested with 20.75 kilograms of black liquid cocaine on March 15 upon his arrival at the Abuja airport on-board Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil through Doha, Qatar to Abuja. The liquid was discovered upon search of his two luggage stuffed with six smaller bags containing 32-makeup mascara, which tested positive to cocaine. Married with four children, the indigene of Oraifiti in Akwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State claims he was a businessman dealing in children wares before delving into the illicit drug business. He claimed he met the person who gave him the consignment to deliver in Nigeria for a fee of N2 million at a drinking joint in Brazil. The NDLEA spokesman, Femi Babafemi said in a statement on Sunday that, three persons: Tony Samson, Paul Adamu, and Reuben Waziri were arrested in Kaduna on 18th March with 18,380 tablets of Tramadol, and 12,500 tablets of Diazepam and Exol-5 tablets and a bus with reg. No AGU 460 ZW, at Obosi bridge heading to Aba, Abia state from Onitsha was intercepted by NDLEA operatives in Anambra on March 17. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Upon search, seven and half jumbo sacks of cannabis weighing 362kg were recovered while the driver, Ifeanyi Anyamele admitted to be the owner of the drug exhibits. The previous day, Wednesday 16th March, narcotic officers in Ogun State recovered 865.2kg of cannabis sativa around Otapele- Obada road in Imeko-Afon LGA. The consignment was brought in from the Benin Republic on motorbikes for onward transportation to Lagos and Abeokuta. The same day, the NDLEA image maker said, operatives in the state arrested Bello Ibrahim, with 312.4kg of cannabis Sativa at Ogere tollgate, Ikenne LGA. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NDLEA nabs father of 4 with 20.75kg black liquid cocaine at Abuja airport Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa NDLEA nabs father of 4 with 20.75kg black liquid cocaine at Abuja airport ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team