The protest over the propriety of sitting the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) by Nigerian students seeking admission into universities and those desirous to work in the United Kingdom is highly commendable. It is a right step in the right direction. An online petition on Change.org against IELTS, championed by Policy Shaper, demanded immediate changes in the policy of UK universities, companies and organisations asking for proficiency in English test before admission or employment. The petition has continued to gather momentum and the support of Nigerians from all walks of life. It garnered over 40,000 signatures. Interestingly, it was reported that the petition had got the support of the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, who thinks Nigeria is long overdue for exemption from IELTS test considering its status as a former British colony. Those who genuinely and stubbornly kick against the policy consider it a total rip-off. It is nothing short of commercialising an official language well written and spoken by a nation colonised by Britain under the pretext of writing a competency test. Among the disturbing and contentious issues trailing the test is the high cost implication. The cost of writing the test, the rigours associated with it and the two-year duration of its validity smacks more of exploitation and this is unacceptable. The test is almost three times the country’s minimum wage of N30,000 as reported by Premium Times Online. While The Diplôme d’études en langue française (DELF) and Diplôme approfondi de langue française (DALF) taken by countries colonised by the French has no validity limit; IELTS has to be taken after every two years.  In fact, the cost of the IELTS stands between N83, 000 ($200) and N89, 500 ($216.2) for students and others in Nigeria, when juxtaposed with DELF and DALF which cost N16,000 ($38.55) and N19,000 ($45.7). From the cost implications of the two, one wonders why Britain should exhibit such shenanigans. Nigerians rightly demand for immediate reduction of the fees charged. Responding to the charges, Britain maintained that test providers set the fees individually but they must be comparable to what is obtainable or charged globally. Nigerians demand that the country be exempted from the test.  While citizens of Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, Trinidad and Tobago, and 10 other countries are exempted from the test, the petitioners wondered why none of the anglophone countries did not qualify for exemption even though they are former British colonies and members of  the Commonwealth. The 12 locations for the test are inadequate for a nation of 36 states and a Federal Capital Territory. Every state should have at least one test centre. I also dare to add that the “test” should be changed to “exam” with a corresponding certificate in the end. The validity of the test passed should also be relevant as the certificate. However, as part of its visa application requirements, the UK insists that citizens of any country willing to relocate to the country for work or study opportunities must take the IELTS. According to the petition, the Head of Communications at the British High Commission in Nigeria, Dean Hurlock, the UK home office said; “it is important that anyone willing to either work or study in the UK shows evidence of language competence to integrate in the country.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Surprisingly, in 2020 when the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) made inquiry on this same issue, the response from the UK Home office stunned the world. The office said; “We do not have the required evidence that shows the majority of people in Nigeria speak English as their first language.” It added: “We must have evidence that at least 51 per cent of the population speaks English as a first language for a country to be included in the Majority English Speaking Country list.” However, the truth remains that more than 51 per cent of Nigerians speak English as first language of the country. As a matter of fact, 53 per cent of Nigerians speak and are proficient in English language. It must be noted that bearing in mind the population of Nigeria, the country speaks English more than the English people. Nigerians who studied English language both at home and abroad have distinguished themselves in their chosen areas of study. After independence, Britain has evolved neocolonial measures and antics aimed at perpetually putting Nigeria and other Commonwealth nations under undue pressure and control. If not, why should a country which has adopted English as its lingua franca for over 60 years be subjected to such odious ridicule? British policies on colonised African territories run short of basic altruistic intentions. The British policy of association viewed colonised nations as strangers in Britain despite the pretensions, while the French policy of assimilation offered warm embrace, acceptance, free national identity and unfettered access to France to the colonised nations. In the 60s, nationals of countries like India, Philippines, Sri Lanka and other African nations were students of premiere universities in Nigeria. One can say with all certainty that Nigeria cannot measure up with the standard of education of those countries today. What went wrong? The nation failed to build and consolidate on the early gains and opportunities of its growing and glowing nationhood. It was wasted on the altar of ineffective leadership. The inability of Nigerian and African leaders to put into good use abundant resources at their disposal for the benefit of their citizens is a major shameful cause of this disgrace. The common and globally accepted maxim that education is the bedrock of societal development is only regurgitated in Nigeria and Africa. The premium placed on education in Nigeria is nothing to write home about. Areas like increased budgetary provision and implementation, increase in school enrollment, quality infrastructure and conducive learning environment as well as trained teaching personnel deserve urgent attention. Previous concerns raised by Nigerians about the policy were completely ignored by the UK. The Nigerian government should deploy its diplomatic processes in getting Britain to pay attention to the demands of Nigerians. Finally, the UK Home Office should also look into the protest and demand dispassionately and act in the interest of justice, equity and fairness. The existing cordial and symbiotic relationship between the two nations should not be sacrificed on the altar of IELTS. Eze, a media and development communication specialist, writes in via sunnyeze02@yhaoo.com ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details