There was palpable anxiety at the Eagle Square, venue of the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as rumours swelled among delegates that some governors may try to upturn the consensus agreement reached on the national chairman position.

Speculation were rife Saturday evening that the lengthy delay in the take-off of the event was due to the threat by some governors to ditch the agreement reached on Senator Abdulahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the post and instead were poised to direct their state delegates to vote for another person. There was also the rumor that some were toying with the idea of staging a walkout in a mimic of the 2014 experience of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Some suggested that more three hours after President Buhari Buhari was scheduled to arrive at the venue, the normally very prompt President was yet to leave the presidential villa because he was trying to end every dissent before heading to the venue. WAs at the time of this report,  delegates, party supporters and observers were still anticipating the arrival of the President while being entertained by artistes from different sections of the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details