The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has approved a new and improved dress code for Women Officers of the Force with an immediate effect. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday by the Acting Force Public Relations Officer, FPRO, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. According to the statement, “the new dress code permits them to wear stud earrings, and headscarf under their berets or peak caps as the case may be while in uniform. It stated that the dress code was unveiled at the IGP’s meeting with Strategic Police Managers on Thursday in Abuja. The statement added that the IGP noted that the Nigeria Police workforce has officers from every local government in the country with a variety of ethnic and religious backgrounds, and increased inclusion of female folks which prompted the need to guarantee inclusion, gender mainstreaming, ethnic and religious diversity in the workplace for optimum output and professionalism. According to it, “this has informed the improvement for effective global workforce diversity management. Other countries that have adopted the same dress code include Canada, the United States of America, Sweden, Turkey, Australia and the United Kingdom, amongst others. It further explained that the dress code was however optional and that the IGP had directed  Senior Women Police Officers to ensure compliance with the approved standard for women police officers who have opted to adopt the dress code. It added that the IGP noted that this development, which was in line with international best practices addressed the growing concern for gender mainstreaming and respect for culture and diversity. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…IGP approves dress code  IGP approves dress code Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…IGP approves dress code. IGP approves dress code ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.