Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, on Thursday, knocked the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government for wholesome destruction of the affairs of the nation. According to Mohammed, the destruction of the nation is evident in insecurity, pervasive poverty, division along the lines of ethnicity and religion, distraught and disillusioned Nigerians. Mohammed made these remarks during the inauguration of the 5.25kilometres Gedu-Oroki-Sabo-Ashipa road, Oyo, Oyo State. He added that several Nigerians also suffered exclusion while tribalism, sectionalism, regionalism, religious bigotry and selfishness among the leadership reigned supreme in the country. “You have seen what the APC has done, they have destroyed everywhere. There is no security anywhere; Nigeria has become the poverty capital of the world. Our people are divided because of sentiments, because of exclusion. People are distraught and disillusioned,” Mohammed said. As compared to the APC, Mohammed said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) now boasted of new leaders who are “putting aside tribalism, sectionalism, regionalism and religious bigotry to bring people to the fore who can conquer the environment; who know what they are doing; who are not hungry for money; who are not coming to take your resources and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and put it in their pockets; who are ready to open new frontiers; develop new synergies; deepen stakeholding. Mohammed said Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State typified excellence in leadership, has become a reference point for governors which the PDP is proud of. He added that Makinde had shown that he came into governance with a plan and had continued to use available resources to improve the quality of life of the people. Mohammed said: “I couldn’t wait to come to Oyo because we are hearing and seeing what the governor is doing. In terms of our peer review, your governor is a reference point. “He is using little resources to do so much; using a fine procurement process that will deliver infrastructure with timelines and with local contractors. “Governor Makinde, we are proud of you for what you are doing and I know the people of Oyo know what they are getting from you in terms of value for money, in terms of touching their lives not only in Ibadan but in all the nooks and crannies of the state. “I want to say this accomplished technocrat, this engineer that has come and hit the polity with a bang, that has defied all odds to emerge as an emerging leader and I know the people of Oyo will not let him down.” “By the grace of God, you have lent us one of the best of yours, that is Governor Seyi Makinde in the Peoples Democracy (PDP). “Today in the South West, he is the face of development we are saying. He is the face of leadership we are seeing. He is doing his best in all the states of the South West. He has become a mesmerising leader.” In his remarks, Governor Seyi Makinde said the 5.25km Gedu-Oroki-Sabo-Asipa Road is part of over 550 kilometres of roads, both completed and ongoing, by his administration. He cautioned against notions that the state was celebrating 5.2kilometres of road, saying the road is crucial as it links Oyo West and Atiba Local Government Areas as well as connects Oyo-Iseyin, Ogbomoso-Iseyin roads. While noting that his administration had done a lot of work around the Oke-Ogun-Oyo-Ibadan axis, he assured that his administration is also working on the inter-connectivity of Ibarapa and Ogbomoso geopolitical zones of the state. For the Ibarapa zone, he said the state had re-awarded the reconstruction of 58kilometres Omi Adio-Ido-Eruwa Road, approved the limited rehabilitation of the Igboora-Igangan-Iganna Road, reconstruction of the Isaba-Ogundoyin Road, Eruwa. For the Ogbomoso zone, he said the Iseyin-Fapote-Ogbomoso will link Oke-Ogun Road while the Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin road also linked the two zones. Makinde said: “In the next two months, we would have clocked three years that we have been serving our state and at that time we would present our scorecards of what we have done. The good thing though is that our scorecard is not hidden. In road construction alone, we have over 550kms of roads, both completed and ongoing. “We have successfully laid the proper foundation for engineering a modern Oyo State. As we have said repeatedly, we believed that anywhere that roads go, development follows and so, when we promised that we would move the good people of Oyo state from poverty to prosperity, we knew that a lot of our plans will be hinged on creating a viable road network through rehabilitations, reconstruction and constructions. “They may be saying this government is only completing the projects of some people, for us, wherever we see work we need to complete, we will complete it because it is not about starting but completion.” Makinde added that the attention given to road rehabilitation, reconstruction and construction had led to more businesses opening up in Oyo State, translating to an increase in the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). In two years, he said his administration had raised the state’s IGR by N15 billion in two years. Personalities who graced the road inauguration included the Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Honourable Adebo Ogundoyin; Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; Olugbon of Orile-Igbon, Oba Francis Alao; Onifiditi of Fiditi, Oba Oyelere Sakirudeen; Chairman, Oyo Metropolitan Development Association, Archbishop Ayo Ladigbolu; members of the executive councils of Oyo and Bauchi states; members of the Oyo State House of Assembly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity