• From a very humble beginning in 1980, Mrs Victoria Adunola Samson started as a dealer under Texaco Nigeria Ltd (now MRS Plc). She distinguished herself by winning the most prized Texaco Plc. Best Dealer Award in sales, marketing innovativeness amongst others for the Latin American/West African Region. She is the first Nigerian to win the highly competitive award for the highest sales in both regions combined. • Today, she is the Managing Director of BOVAS group. • The BOVAS group was established in 1980 and started operations as an indigenous independent petroleum marketing company. • BOVAS opened its first service station in Osogbo, Osun State, Nigeria, in 1991. Presently, the company operates 119 service stations around the country. A Liquefied Petroleum Gas Plant was added to the group in 1995, to cater for the domestic gas customers. • Not minding the risks, Mama BOVAS did not only revolt the oil cabals in their usual characteristics of milking poor Nigerians, but put the masses in control. Recently, a litre of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise known as petrol, was sold for N300 and above in Nigeria, and motorists were stranded as a result of unending queues at many filling stations. The scarcity also forced motorists indoors. The level of scarcity increased and the situation was further compounded as the price was jacked up by various petrol stations. During these hard times, BOVAS sold its products at the official price. • Mrs Victoria Adunola Samson, Mama BOVAS, has been a major marketer easing fuel scarcity in Nigeria, thus making life easier for Nigerians. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details