A political mobilization movement, the National Democratic Mandate Group, NDMG says it has concluded plans to bring value to rural areas where women live. The National Woman Leader of NDMG Hon. Hadiza Hassan disclosed this in Umuahia yesterday on the occasion of the inauguration of the group’s Abia State Women Wing, adding that the group ‘is building a just society which provides basic needs, ensures equal opportunities for self-development through education and gainful employment”, especially to women in Nigeria. Represented by the South-East Zonal Woman leader, Barr Mrs Juliana Iwuji, the group, Hon. Hassan said the group is also seeking “gender equality and political participation of women” in politics which will “facilitate women’s direct engagement in public decision-making and as a means of ensuring better accountability to women”. Earlier in his welcome address, the Abia State chapter chairman of the group, Kenrry Ibekwe noted that as 2022 is the year when parties and groups are seriously at work to change the current political narratives of the country, “women play a critical role in this regard”. According to him, “At the heart of these hustling and bustling, are the Nigerian women with or without political affinity who suffer the brunt of every bad government policies or poor implementation of any good policy”, adding that the group “shall try to help women with proper, adequate and contemporary issues and education for efficiency and effectiveness”. In her lecture, titled “Maintaining The Sanctityy of Women In A male Dominated Environment – The Challenges and Prospects”, the Abia State Commissioner for Industries, Promotions and Development, Chief (Mrs) Uwaoma Olewengwa regretted that women are not getting what they should, stating that men and women were created equal by God. She noted: “God only divided the roles and did not make anyone half-man or half-woman” and warned women that depending on men always is not the ideal thing, adding that women are unfairly treated in politics as it is in the Abia State House of Assembly where there is no single woman member. “Men deliberately locked up everywhere against the women. They would only call on her when they are looking for pleasure and use them as objects of pleasure”, the commissioner said and laid the blame on culture and religion. Also speaking, the Deputy Chairman of Aba South LGA Hon. Lady Adanma Umesi urged women to block all avenues for exploitation by men by being up and doing and advised them to keep their pride intact. In her acceptance speech, the newly inaugurated chairperson of the women wing, Abia State branch, Hon. Mrs Nnenna Mary John assured that the group through her in Abia State will pull out women for sensitization, as well as train them to be self-conscious and to take proper care of their families. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.