The organisers and founder of the annual, travelling film industry awards, Best of Nollywood (BON) has announced plans to unveil the host city for the 2022 edition of the awards. In a statement made available to Tribune Online and signed by Mr Seun Oloketuyi, founder BON Awards, the host city for the 14th edition would be announced on Tuesday, March 28 alongside the presentation of hosting rights the governor of the host state. This event will be the official kick-off of the activities that lead up to the award ceremony in the host city come Saturday, December 3, 2022. Over the years, the awards has sought to reward the best of Nigeria’s film industry, while keeping interests alive. Among, the 2021 nominees were Stan Nze, Femi Adebayo, Lateef Adedimeji; Sola Sobowale; Mercy Aigbe, Iyabo Ojo and others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Best of Nollywood (BON) awards  Best of Nollywood (BON) awards  Best of Nollywood (BON) awards  Best of Nollywood (BON) awards ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details