The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command of Nigeria Police, on Tuesday, foiled a kidnap attack in Abuja, rescuing the victim and apprehending one of the suspected kidnappers in the process. In a statement made available to pressmen via the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, on Thursday, the FCT Police Commissioner Babaji Sunday stated that “On Tuesday 15th March, 2022, at about 2300hrs, upon the receipt of actionable intelligence from well-meaning members of the Dobi kwalita area of the FCT, about the assembly of a number of persons suspected to be kidnappers, the tactical and intelligence assets at the disposal of the Gwagwalada Area command and Division Police headquarters in concert with military personnel of 176 battalion and the local Vigilante, drifted swiftly into action to the scene. “Following the above, in a bid to escape the aggressive advancement of the team, the criminal elements opened fire at the team, while the team gallantry repelled the attack, recording the rescue of one kidnapped Sani Dauje, a resident of Dobi kwalita area of the FCT, the arrest of one Usman Babangida, an 18 years old male and a member of the criminal syndicate, and the recovery of two fire Arms with breach numbers 56-128031015 in the custody of the Police and 1974HKOOO85 currently in the custody of the military operatives both With twenty-one (21) and Twenty-three (23) rounds of live ammunition respectively. “The suspect is currently at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) as monitoring continues in the area, while an effort to apprehend fleeing members of the criminal syndicate is at top gear,” he stated. Babaji while attributing the recorded success to the rendition of timely, precise and accurate information, enjoins the good people of the Territory not to relent in supporting the Police in the above regard, as he assured of the command’s unflinching commitment to the fight against crime and criminality in the FCT. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity