The branches of Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) and Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities (SSANU) in universities and inter-universities centres across the country have served notice of two weeks warning strike to the Federal Government over what the unions described as a non-challant attitude of the government to their demands. It stated this in a joint press statement signed by both the National President of SSANU, Comrade H. Ibrahim and the General Secretary of NASU, Prince Peters Adeyemi, a copy of which was made available to the Nigerian Tribune on Sunday in Minna, Niger State capital. The statement reads: “Please refer to our letter with ref. No. JAC/ NS. Vol.11/192 dated 18th March 2022, addressed to the Honourable Minister, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment titled: the looming strike.” ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The unions said, “Having waited for so long, this is to inform you that the government has not responded nor reacted to our demands as at this moment.” It however added that in view of the non-challant attitude of the government to their demands, “This is to direct our members in all universities and inter-universities centres throughout the country to commence a two-week warning strike by midnight of Sunday, 27th March, 2022 in the first instance as earlier conveyed to the Federal Government in our letter.” The statement thereby emphasized that the two-week warning strike should be comprehensive and total, adding that no concession should be given in any guise. “Your strict compliance and adherence to the directive is mandatory to all branches of NASU and SSANU in the Universities and Inter- Universities Centres throughout the country,” the statement concluded. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details