The Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, is giving away 500 free tickets to football fans to watch the match between the Black Stars of Ghana and the Super Eagles of Nigeria at the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja, on Tuesday, 29 March. Runsewe who made this announcement in Abuja added that the wearing of national colour of green white green will be a condition for the issuance of the tickets to potential beneficiaries at the old parade ground by 12:00noon, on Tuesday 29th March, 2022. In a chat with journalists in Abuja, the NCAC boss stressed that sports is a unifying factor in the country, adding that sports and culture are a veritable ingredients for the development of any nation. Runsewe who doubles as the President of the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) also said that apart from mobilizing 3 million online culture friendly fan base to support the Super Eagles during the FIFA World Cup in Russia in 2018, the NCAC also engendered the mobilization of 10 million virtual supporters for the Eagles during the AFCON 2021 in Cameroon. He urged Nigerians to put the early exit of the Super Eagles from the AFCON 2021 behind them and back the squad to qualify for the World Cup. “It is time we put the behind early exit of the Super Eagles from the AFCON and stay focused on Nigeria qualifying for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar”, he said. “We cannot continue to talk about Eagles not going far in the tournament after showing so much promise at the group stage” he further emphasized. The NCAC boss said there was the need for Nigerians to give maximum support to National team so that they could qualify for the Qatar world cup which will serve as a good platform to once again market Nigeria’s rich and diverse culture, arts and crafts which would further attract global patronage. This, according to him, will translate to massive Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) for the country even after the fiesta.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details