The leadership of the Senate has said it has yet to take a position on any of its colleagues seeking the exalted office of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Convention to elect substantive national officers will hold on Saturday. Three serving senators from the North Central are in the race. The aspirants from the Red Chamber include two from Nasarawa S tate: Abdullahi Adamu and Tanko Al-Makura. Also in the race is Senator representing Niger East, Sani Musa. Spokesman of the Senate and Senator representing Osun Central, Ajibola Basiru said the APC Senate Cauy has no anointed choice for APC Chairman. He maintained that what is paramount is an energetic person who would be elected through a transparent election. He said, “I am not aware that the APC senate caucus has adopted any senator for the position of the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress. “I know that three senators are contesting and there was nowhere or occasion when we took any decision to adopt any particular candidate. “We would be very happy if any of them emerge as the APC national chairman on Saturday. “The emergence of any of the three senators would be a good omen to our institution. “At the moment, the APC senate caucus hasn’t endorsed any of them or agreed to pick any of them as the consensus candidate. “Senators Adamu Abdullahi, Sani Musa and Tanko Al-Makura are in the race,” he added. Checks by Tribune Online revealed that the presence of certain principal officers of the Senate at the campaign office of Senator Adamu last Friday has fuelled speculation that he had been endorsed by the APC Senate caucus. Apart from Senate Leader, Senator Abdullahi Yahaya, others in attendance when Senator Adamu unveiled his campaign office included Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo Agege; Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Others were; Senator Ali Ndume; Senator Adamu Aliero; and Senator Barau Jibrin. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…APC convention  APC convention Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…APC convention  APC convention ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team