The leadership tussle in the All Progressives Congress has continued to fester despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that the anti-Buni forces should ceasefire. A memo removing the National Secretary of the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe was released to newsmen on Thursday in Abuja. It was signed by Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello and nine other members of the Caretaker Committee. Tribune Online checks revealed that the memo was dated March 8, 2022, before President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter dated March 16, 2022, asking the Niger State Governor to step aside as acting chairman and allow his Yobe State counterpart, Governor, Mai Mala Buni return to his office as Chairman of the APC CECPC and proceed with the conduct of the convention. Tribune Online investigation revealed that the anti- Buni forces released the letter following a statement signed by Senator Akpanudoedehe on Wednesday night announcing the cancellation of Thursday’s meeting of the National Executive Committee. The national secretary in his statement said he was acting on the instruction of Governor Buni. The Governor Bello camp was also enraged over the new list of Subcommittees for the March 26 convention asking party faithful to disregard the earlier list of Committees in public domain released by the Niger State Governor who is still parading himself as acting chairman despite President Buhari’s directive. A member of the APC CECPC and new spokesman of the party, Mr Ismaeel Ahmed insisted that Senator Akpanudoedehe has been relieved of his position. Asked for his comments on the new list of Subcommittees,  Ahmed claimed that the ” CECPC never approved the list and in fact has no record of such list.” He asked media and party members to ignore it. He maintained “that the approved final list was the outcome of extensive consultations with all the stakeholders and follow up at ensuring a decent list that is representative and inclusive is put together and the same has since been issued. The laughable action of sacked Senator Akpanudoedehe is therefore considered an affront on the committee which was duly constituted in line with provisions of the party’s constitution and NEC of the party.” He further alleged that Senator Akpanudoedehe was planning to scuttle the national convention. “Seeing the unpopular actions of Senator Akpanudoedehe it is now obvious that he might be surreptitiously working to derail the party, cause internal friction capable of causing further crisis, but the committee against all his antics is determined to forge ahead and ensure the national convention holds as scheduled and approved devoid of any untoward actions.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Niger Gov snubs Buhari, sacks Akpanudoedehe  Niger Gov snubs Buhari, sacks Akpanudoedehe  Niger Gov snubs Buhari, sacks Akpanudoedehe  Niger Gov snubs Buhari, sacks Akpanudoedehe ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity