The Academic Board of the Kogi State Polytechnic has approved the expulsion of 10 students for examination misconduct. The Board also reaffirmed its decision to seize results of school fees defaulters after the expiration of grace given. These were parts of the resolutions reached at the Polytechnic’s Academic Board meeting held on Wednesday, 16th February 2022, at Hall ‘A’ of the Main Campus. The students expelled were all from different departments of the School of Management Studies, having contravened relevant sections of the Revised Polytechnic Students’ Handbook and were found guilty. A statement issued by the school authority and signed by the Public Relations Officer, Omale Uredo, on Saturday stated that the Academic Board sent out a reminder to all school fee defaulters, irrespective of their Academic Session to use the grace of the current 2021/2022 Academic Session to pay up all the outstanding fees and obtain their results or they would forfeit their result. Chairman of the Academic Board, Dr Salisu Ogbo Usman, who reiterated the Management and Board’s commitment to quality assurance in academics, staff and students’ welfare, and infrastructural development noted that the Polytechnic would continue to get rid of bad elements who always tried to bring the name of the institution to disrepute. Dr Usman appreciated members of the Academic Board for their continued support just as he promised them of reforms that would affect the Polytechnic positively. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more