Average and poor masses in this country have been lamenting the continuous fuel scarcity in the country which is biting hard. Despite the assurance by the Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Cooperation that fuel scarcity would be over last week, marketers of the product have continued to hide the product, thereby exposing the masses to untold hardship. The issue of fuel scarcity in the country is mere wickedness of Nigerians to Nigerians; it is a problem caused among us and not by foreigners. Going by the circumstances surrounding the scarcity of fuel in the country, one would easily conclude that it is a deliberate plan of marketers to regulate within themselves how they will sell the products. As citizens struggle to get fuel, , you find out that among the petrol stations in a particular area, only one station would  be selling, then the next day you see a different one selling fuel. This act is a deliberate one to cause the crisis and make more money while the masses suffer. If all fuel stations would be sincere and open all their stations without withholding the commodity, the issue of fuel scarcity will be a thing of the past. This plan by the marketers is absolutely a setup to generate more profits; just Nigerians against Nigerians; this is the right time to fight and bring an end to this menace of fuel scarcity that is being imposed on us by fellow Nigerians with vested interest, people who only care about their personal interests without thinking about the danger they will put others in. Marketers should know that we are all Nigerians and what goes around, comes around. Therefore, the unity of this country is superior to our individual and selfish interest. Muhammad Umar Shehu and Dangana Henry Joseph     08035794769 YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.