Nasarawa State Governor and Chairman of the Media Committee of the All Progressives Congress Convention Planning Committee, Abdullahi Sule, has explained why governors on the party platform conceded to President Muhammadu Buhari on his choice of former Nasarawa State Governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the next chairman of the ruling party. The Convention is slated to hold on Saturday in Abuja. Speaking with newsmen on his Committee preparation ahead of the election, Governor Sule said those who have misgivings to the adoption of Senator Adamu as Consensus candidate would ultimately agree with his choice because of the tremendous respect Buhari enjoys amongst stakeholders. He said: ” What our party has that others don’t have is the fact that we have a political leader and father that everyone who is truly a member of this party respects and that is President Muhamadu Buhari. “We strongly believe that he will not do something just for selfish reason, for greed or for anything that will be against the interest of the party. He is interested in ensuring the unity of the party. So he’s not doing anything for his personal benefit. That is the kind of leader we have that is why each time he speaks everyone listens because they know he is not doing it for any personal benefit. That is his request and I am telling you his request will be honoured because we know he is doing it sincerely for the benefit of the party.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Nasarawa State Governor also assured party faithful that everything would be done to convince other aspirants for the Chairman race to formally announce their withdrawal to fulfil certain provisions of the Electoral Act. He said:  “When you come to the Electoral Act, we are a law-abiding political party. We will do whatever it is within the context of the Electoral Act. We will not do anything whatsoever as a political party that is going to be in violation of the law because as the ruling party, we will not carry out something that is going to be detrimental to our law in this country so that we do not give a bad example. You can be rest assured that whatever we are going to do is going to be in line with the Electoral Act.” He further dropped the hint that the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under the leadership of his Yobe State counterpart, Mai Mala Buni, would be willing to refund the nomination fee paid by Chairmanship aspirants and others who might lose out in the Unity List being prepared “The refund of payment to aspirants; this was an appeal made by Mr President in order to show leadership. “He said once we agreed on the consensus it is only fair that what they pay be returned back to them. It was a request actually made by Mr President to the leadership of the party and the leadership was there. So, I will say that the leadership of the party also agreed.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs APC Chair: Why we surrender to Buhari on his choice of Adamu ― Nasarawa Governor Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa APC Chair: Why we surrender to Buhari on his choice of Adamu ― Nasarawa Governor APC Chair: Why we surrender to Buhari on his choice of Adamu ― Nasarawa Governor ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details