The Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo has commenced its work-study policy with 10 students of the institution studying the different courses as a pioneer set. The scheme is one of the six-cardinal agenda of the administration of the current Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, who assumed office six months ago. Receiving the pioneer set at her office on Thursday, Prof Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, said the overall objective of the scheme was to empower the students of the university with work experience right from school and at the same time raise some incomes for them. She said the choice of fixing the students on ICT-related jobs and with the Directorate of ICT of the school is to enable them to acquire ICT knowledge and skills that have become most relevant globally across fields of human endeavours. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She congratulated them for the opportunity and asked them to be very productive. In his remark at the event, the Acting Director, Directorate of ICT and Project Manager, Dr Toyin Enikuomehin, said the 10 students had already worked for one week and had a four-month work duration for the first instance and entitle to a monthly stipend from the school. He said the programme is designed in such a manner that it would not affect the academic and other activities expected of students, noting that the pioneer set had already demonstrated their love for the scheme. He said the students were selected by the Students Union and would work on the digitalisation of academic records of the university from 1984 to 2005, adding that they had already carried out about 3,500 digitalisation contents within one week. Some of the students, who spoke appreciated the vice-chancellor and her team for the uncommon opportunity and promised to maximise the opportunity to learn new skills and build their profiles for greater opportunities in future. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team