No fewer than 20 Aspirants who are contesting for various offices on the Convention ground announced their voluntary withdrawal for the anointed candidates by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The Abubakar Badaru-led Election Committees of the APC National Convention announced this as dignitaries including the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and National Party Leader and one of the Presidential Aspirants, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu and Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State arrived at the convention ground. According to the members of the Election Committee who announced the withdrawal of some Aspirants, all interested Aspirants who are willing to step down for the preferred Candidates were enjoined to obtain withdrawal form near the Diaspora Delegates tent. According to them, some notable Aspirants have submitted letters of consent as confirmation of their withdrawal from the contest. When contacted, Badaru told Nigerian Tribune that the number of Aspirants who have expressed interest in stepping down is increasing. While urging all the stakeholders to embrace dialogue in order to ensure rancour-free National Convention, the Committee called for the intervention of all the party leaders Also at the convention ground, Ishola Olatunbosun from Osun State announced his voluntary withdrawal and resolve to step down for Tayo Israel Abdullahi. Meanwhile, the security Aides of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila renewed their age-long rivalry as they prevented the Speaker’s convoy from entering the Convention ground through the gate reserved for Mr President. Meanwhile, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu at about 6:56 pm arrived at the Convention ground. At about 7.07 pm, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu also arrived the convention ground.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details