The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) recently granted a one-month grace period for clearing agents to clear the backlog of trapped vehicles without using the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) Valuation system. As the grace period lapses, thousands of trapped vehicles remain uncleared, writes TOLA ADENUBI. ON March 8, 2022, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) harkened to public outcry against the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) Valuation for imported vehicles by temporarily suspending the policy for one month and asking clearing agents to clear the backlog of trapped vehicles through manual assessment. In a circular released by the NCS headquarters, the Service directed all Customs Area Controllers to monitor the transition period and ensure manual assessments are in full compliance with extant laws. This came as a result of rejection of the Customs VIN policy by port users and subsequent protests by clearing agents who had refused to clear import units of vehicles that had arrived the ports, thereby leading to an accumulation of imported vehicles inside the ports terminals. With the one-month grace period, many expected a rush to clear trapped vehicles at the ports. Investigations have, however, revealed that many vehicles remain uncleared inside the ports due to conflicting reasons.  Incessant server disruption For clearing agents, incessant breakdown of Customs server is one of the major reasons clearing agents are not clearing as many trapped vehicles as expected. Speaking with the Nigerian Tribune, chairman of the National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), PTML Chapter, Mr Abayomi Duyile, explained that in one week, Customs server can be down for two to three days. According to Mr Duyile, “The one-month window to clear the backlog of trapped vehicles cannot be enough. How do the Customs expect us to clear over 6,000 trapped imported vehicles within one month with the way their server is always breaking down incessantly? “In one week, Customs server can be down for two to three days. Whenever Customs server is down, nothing happens. Agents cannot clear cargoes because the server is down. If we lose two or three days every week to server downtime, how does Customs expect us to clear the backlog of over 6,000 trapped vehicles? IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We expected them to give us 90 days, but they gave one month. We that asked for 90 days knew Customs server is prone to incessant breakdown and that was why we were advocating for 90 days during the Customs stakeholders’ meeting held in Lagos. But they gave us one month, and we have been at the ports trying to clear the backlog, but the system issues are dragging the process. At the end of the one month, Customs will come out and say they gave agents a window to clear those trapped cargoes, but they refused to come and clear them. Customs won’t tell the world that their system have issues incessantly that slowed down the process of clearing those backlogs of cargoes.”  Arbitrary valuation system Another issue clearing agents are facing at the port is the determination of transaction value of these trapped vehicles using manual assessment system. In the words of the National Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto, the manual assessment regime is being abused by Customs officers as arbitrary values are being slammed on vehicles, thereby frustrating the efforts of clearing agents to clear as many vehicles as they can while the grace period lasts. In the words of Dr Farinto, “While the grace period lasted, Customs Area Controllers were directed to monitor the transition period and ensure manual assessments were in full compliance with extant laws. The CAC’s are pushing their officers to make every kobo out of every clearance of those trapped vehicles. Thus, the values they are slamming on those vehicles are still very high. “Yes, VIN has been suspended, but the values being placed on those vehicles are still high and that’s why some agents are not turning up to clear those vehicles. How can Customs be asking agents to pay the same value for same vehicles that have different mileage and different body conditions? That is what is currently happening at the ports and many agents are not turning up to clear the backlog. “The valuation of those trapped vehicles is being done arbitrarily because some people want to meet with their revenue target. Some CACs are already worried over the days lost to the protests by clearing agents, and they want to make up by giving very high values that don’t conform to what is on ground. “It is a shame that in this part of the world, we operate a Customs that dedicates so much energy to revenue generation rather than trade facilitation. The emphasis on revenue generation has beclouded many of our Customs officers that they fail to implement trade facilitation at our ports. “We await their VIN with expected adjustment and modifications, but I can tell you that if it is still harsh on business. We will resist it with everything that we have got. We won’t allow the drive by the Customs management to shore up its revenue drive to drive us out of business. If we have to strike all over again, we won’t hesitate to do it. We await the new VIN that they are planning to implement.” The VIN Valuation system was introduced following a lack of harmonisation and standardisation of Customs’ valuation system. In the absence of a standardised valuation system, Customs officials were accused of high-handedness and extortion through the use of deductive valuation. With the one month grace period still less than two week before its closure, the fate of many vehicles still trapped inside the ports remain unclear as agents battle incessant sever breakdown and arbitrary assessment regime at the nations ports. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details