The Presbyterian Church of Nigeria (PCN), Bauchi Mission Parish, over the weekend, organised a free medical outreach to people of Yelwan Makaranta community, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis, as part of its community and social responsibility. The outreach targeted 500 patients within the community as part of activities marking the Church’s year 2022 crusade with the theme, ‘Royal Priesthood’. The exercise which was conducted at the church premises provided services to all those who came there both Muslim and Christians. The National Director Mission of Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, Rev Godwin Nwambara said that the outreach was part of the church’s way of bringing medical assistance to its host community. According to him, ” We are in Bauchi for a crusade and thought it wise to give people both spiritual and physical help.” “Many of those who turn up have been sick for a while and couldn’t afford to go to a hospital for lack of funds thus bringing help to the doorsteps has put smiles on their faces”. Godwin Nwambara noted that people need to be healthy to worship God the reason PCN embarked on the medical outreach. He said that ” We provided services to all both Muslims and Christians as a sign of love and neighbourliness, as sickness does not discriminate based on religion”. Mrs Peace Shadrach, Halima Ibrahim and Musa Abdullahi who were part of the beneficiaries of the medical outreach thanked PCN for the gesture. The outreach provided medical services that included malaria testing and treatment, hypertension, diabetes screening and treatment, diarrhoea, cough and catarrh and many others. Those with severe cases were referred to the hospital for further treatment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details