A former presidential candidate and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has described as misplaced expectation those thinking that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will benefit from the current challenges bedevilling the APC. According to Olawepo-Hashim, in a statement made available to the Nigerian Tribune, the PDP, in its present form, is an incompetent opposition to cash in on the crisis facing the APC to its own advantage. Olawepo-Hashim identified a clash of ambitions as bane of the challenge facing the APC, which he said could be solved with the party creating a level-playing field for all aspirants. Though he noted that ambitions were not out of place, he said what was dangerous was people putting institutions and systems at risk because of their own ambitions. He warned that the APC risks destruction if it does not respect its constitution. As a matter of urgency, the APC chieftain urged the National Executive Committee (NEC) and all state chairmen to meet with or without Mai Mala Buni and steer the party towards a convention. This, he said, is crucial in ensuring the party follows statutory guidelines and not fall into traps that may be constitute legal albatross for the party in the future. He, however, noted that it was not all gloom for the APC if the party ensures that competent and experienced hands emerge from its planned convention to man all the party’s organs. Olawepo-Hashim said: “I am aware that some analysts are now enjoying the challenges of the APC believing the PDP will be the beneficiary. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This is a misplaced expectation because the PDP is an incompetent opposition in its present form. “The APC still has a window of opportunity to re-invent itself if all party organs manned by competent and experienced hands become operational after the convention. “On the major cause of the present party challenge, which is majorly a clash of ambitions, this can be solved by creating a level playing field for all aspirants such as was done in the Lagos Convention in 2015. “The APC still has a window of opportunity to re-invent itself if all party organs manned by competent and experienced hands become operational after the convention. “The fastest way out for the APC crisis is to respect its constitution. Here is why? Our great party, the APC, is embroiled in a crisis which if not swiftly handled may lead to its destruction. ‘Worse still, prolonged instability in the ruling party may complicate the many challenges the country is facing and serve as huge distraction to governance. “The reason for the present crises is rooted in the ambitions of many powerful members of the party. “And to be clear, there is nothing wrong with people having ambitions, what is dangerous is to put institutions and systems at risk for one’s ambition. “There is a way out of the present mess which is the return to the full operations of the Constitution of the party immediately. “The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party with all the state chairmen must meet immediately with or without Buni and steer the party towards a National Convention in order to cure the party processes of many ailments it has gathered in the past two years that can constitute legal albatross in the future.” In addition, Olawepo-Hashim cautioned that continued political instability in the APC will not only complicate the many challenges that the country faced but also serve as huge distraction to governance. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity