The National Coordinator of the Presidential Support Committee (PSC) and Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has charged members of the committee on the need to remain united as one family in order to assist President Muhammadu Buhari to produce his successor from the All Progressives Congress (APC). Akpabio gave the charge while receiving state chairmen and leaders of the committee on Tuesday in Abuja. According to Akpabio: “I am most delighted to receive you today. I am always available for your suggestions and advice on how to move this group forward and by extension our great party. Let us, after this meeting, look for all our members across the country because in unity, we are stronger. “While it is your right to support any candidate of your choice in 2023, but after the primaries and candidate(s) emerge, we must close ranks, forget individual differences and work for the unity of the party to ensure our victory at the polls.” The minister, who narrated the events that led to his appointment as the national coordinator of the PSC by President Muhamadu Buhari shortly after flagging-off his second term campaign in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, said: “As the National Coordinator, I inherited nothing, but I put in my best to bring back the Committee. “Through our collective efforts, the activities of the group were seen and felt in all the 36 states of the federation before and during the election which led to our victory at the polls in 2019. We can still repeat that feat in 2023.” Speaking further, the former governor of Akwa Ibom State declared that “events after the swearing-in of President Muhamadu Buhari for second term were not encouraging. Some misled individuals, thereafter, went ahead to make a lot of illegal pronouncements in the media, which attempted to paint the group, which has very prominent Nigerians as members in bad light. “But today, I can say with all seriousness that out of the ashes of the ruins of the PSC, a group has risen to rebuild the House and that group is you. God has not forgotten you and He will adequately reward you all. “As members of the PSC, know that you are a formidable group within our great party, in very vantage position to assist Mr President to produce a credible and acceptable successor from our great party.” Earlier in his remarks, the Cross River State chairman of the committee and Mr Elijah Ettah, said “we the state chairmen and other zonal leaders of the committee are in Abuja to thank you, our National Coordinator for your leadership qualities and achievements as a public officer. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.