The Women Agro Processors Agricgen and Exporters Initiative (WAPAGEIN) a non-governmental and not-for-profit organization established to promote agric businesses, entrepreneurship, youth and women development careers, has urged the Federal Government to modernise and transform the nation’s ports management system. The President of WAPAGEIN, Esther Adebayo, made the call at the inauguration of the initiative and National Export Centre, on Thursday in Abuja. According to the Adebayo; “I am of the opinion that the Federal Government should not be decongesting the Ports in Nigeria but engage in transforming the ports. “This must start with cleaning up administrative bottlenecks most of which are unnecessary with multiple government agencies at the port, high transaction cost, or even plain extortion from illegal taxes, which do not go into the coffers of the government. “Nigeria should rapidly modernize and transform its ports. Ports are not there for equipment revenue generation. They should be for facilitating business and exports and stimulating industrial manufacturing, and competitiveness of local business and exports,” she stated. She disclosed that the cost of exporting 100 tons of cargo in Nigeria was 35,000.00 dollars compared to 4000.00 dollars in Ghana. “Today the leading ports for West Africa are in Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo and the Benin Republic. All these countries have modernised their Port management Systems, leaving Nigeria far behind.” She further stated that; “We must unleash the potential of the youths of Nigeria. Today over 75 per cent of the population is under the age of 35 years. “More decisive actions are needed to turn this demographic asset into an economic dividend. A young productive, youthful population with access to education, skills, social protection, affordable housing, and medical care will power Nigeria’s economy now and well into the future. “We must move away from so-called youth empowerment programs “The youth do not need hands out”. They need investments. Agro business is well loaded with millions of jobs creation for the youths.” Adebayo urged State Governments to establish farm settlements, clusters of agro producers including women and youths, urging the three tiers of government to promote operation “feed yourself” by helping households to access information, and inputs that would encourage them to produce food around their houses to feed their families. “With sharp focus, relentless execution, fairness, equity, public accountability and transparency, we shall drive for a much better and economically stronger Nigeria.” Earlier, Dr Funmilola Daudu, Chairperson, Planning Committee of the event, said the initiative would develop better agricultural and business management practices that would result in improved competitiveness, productivity, income, gross marginal yields for smallholder farmers and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises. She stressed the need for increased women’s potential to participate in high-level businesses that could foster high-level empowerment, job creation and social development in their communities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity