A petitioner’s counsel on Monday faulted the evidence of a police officer before the independent investigative panel on human rights violations by the defunct SARS and other police units, submitting that contrary to the officer’s evidence Nigeria had not recorded any Covid-19 cases as of January 2020. The lawyer, E.C Chukwu, made the submitting while cross-examining the officer, police witness, DSP Adebayo Jogbo Jogbo, at the resumed hearing of a petition filed before the panel set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Okechukwu Jonah, a brother of one Obinna Jonah, an alleged victim of police brutality. The petitioner had alleged that Obinna was killed extra-judicially by the police in 2020, adding that the remains of the deceased were yet to be released to the family for proper burial. Respondents in the petition are the defunct SARS of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Commissioner of Police FCT, Inspector General of Police, Corporal Abubakar Mohammed (formerly of the Anti-One Chance Unit), Sergeant Gambo Mohammed Gadzama (formerly of Anti-One Chance unit), CSP Adebayo Jogbo Jogbo, also formerly Anti-One Chance unit. Jogbo Jogbo had told the panel, which sitting was presided over by a member, Dr Garba Tetengi SAN, on behalf of the chairman, Justice Suleiman Galadima (retd) before the late Obinna died, he fell such and was taken to hospital on January 31, 2020, but was rejected at the hospital because it coincided with the period of Covid-19 pandemic as it was difficult to secure a bed space. According to Jogbo Jogbo, who was the second in command at the defunct Anti-One Chance of the FCT Police Command, following Obinna’s rejection at the hospital, he (Jogbo Jogbo) he directed that he should be kept at the back of the detention counter since he could neither be kept in the police cell nor admitted at the hospital. He added that when the victim later died, his body was deposited at the Wuse General Hospital mortuary, declaring that the body was taken there by one DCP Yari. He further told the panel that must have been deposited by an unnamed junior officer, using his (Jogbo Jogbo’s) name as a senior officer in the Anti-One Chance unit. While being cross-examined by counsel for the petitioner, Chukwu, the police witness said he was not the officer that recorded Obinna’s statement before his death, adding that he did not know who was responsible. However, when Chukwu put it to the witness that it was not Obinna who wrote his statement at the police station when he was arrested, Jogbo Jogbo said that he did not know whether it was the deceased or another person who recorded the statement. While putting a lie to Jogbo Jogbo’s testimony, which he said was contradictory, Chukwu pointed out that Covid-19 was only declared a national emergency on March 26, 2020, contrary to what the witness told the panel of its existence as of January 31, 2020. According to Chukwu, there was no way any hospital in Nigeria could have rejected a patient because of Covid-19 as of January 31, 2020, when it was yet to be declared a national emergency. He said the witness testified that Obinna was not diagnosed with Covid-19 disease and, therefore, had nothing to do with the pandemic. Meanwhile, further hearing in the petition has been adjourned to Wednesday, March 23. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…COVID-19 was not  COVID-19 was not Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…COVID-19 was not  COVID-19 was not ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team