The chairman/CEO, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM),  Abike Dabiri-Erewa, has stressed the need for post-traumatic therapy for the Nigerian-Ukrainian evacuees. She stated this when the American Society of Safety Professionals  (ASSP) visited the Management of Nigerians in the Diaspora Commission in Abuja on Friday. The NIDCOM boss said she will be delighted to work with the leadership of ASSP to help counsel the young students, most of whom are still traumatised by the war experience in Ukraine. Dabiri-Erewa added that she will connect the organisation with other Diaspora bodies worldwide and encourage everyone to join hands together in matters concerning safety and standards. She therefore urged the professional body to remain an agent of change uplifting, fostering Nigeria’s global image. Earlier, Mr Shehu Kabir, President,  American Society of Safety Professionals, Nigerian chapter, said the organisation is willing to volunteer in reintegrating Nigerians returnees since they also have a department in behavioural and mental health. He added that the good works of the Commission has prompted them to visit and seek a strong relationship with both organisations for greater opportunities. He said that the organisation is bringing value on board to NiDCOM in resources, stressing that the Nigerian resources in the Diaspora can be pulled back especially on independent investigation and  putting an end to accidents in Nigeria. Kabir noted that it became necessary to partner with NiDCOM in order to broadcast and showcase the passion of ASSP which  Nigerians in the Diaspora can freely network and engage with the organisation. The ASSP was founded on March 25, 1911, with the Nigeria Chapter formed June 3, 2007 and has its spread over 80 countries. It is a global association of Occupational Safety and Health Professionals that develops and publishes standards focusing on the protection of people, property, and the environment.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team