It was a beehive of activities and a total standstill in Lagos on Tuesday during the launch of Odogwu Bitters, the newest bitter spirit brand. The brand is owned and promoted by prominent businessman, nightlife king, and entertainment powerhouse, Obi Iyiegbu popularly known as Obi Cubana who is chairman of the Cubana Group. The official launch of Odogwu Bitters which was held at the prestigious PablobyCubana on the highbrow Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island had in attendance all-important celebrities in Nigeria, from movie, music, skit industries, and notable celebrity influencers. Several brand ambassadors including famous actors Zubby Micheal, Alex Okubo, and music street mover, Portable, otherwise known as ZAZU, MrJollof and Broda Shaggi were unveiled at the event. Odogwu Bitters has 30% alcohol and offer a unique taste that is perfect for straight consumption and also suitable as a cocktail mix.  The ginger and honey mix is a major attraction for young consumers. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details