A House of Representatives hopeful for the Akoko-Edo Federal cConstituency under the All Progressive Congress, APC, and Governor Godwin Obaseki’s former Chief of Staff (CoS), Taiwo Akerele, has condemned the attack on the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire and former Senator Domingo Obende, during weekends APC national convention over their alleged roles in the 2020 Edo State governorship which the party lost to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Akerele, in a press statement endorsed by him on Monday and titled ‘I am against selective justice’, said that he was against anti-party activities, but insisted that it was wrong for the two to be singled out where there were several other party leaders, particularly in Edo South Senatorial District, where Ehanire comes from, who were mobilised for the election, yet lost whereas the party won in five out of the six local government areas that make up Edo North Senatorial District where Obende comes from. While congratulating the new leadership of the party on the successful conduct of the convention, Akerele said “For the avoidance of doubt I am not in favour of any anti party activities. I would rather resign from the government and be loyal to my party. Hence in the 2020 elections in my unit I gave PDP and its candidate a very wide margin. The results are there in INEC for verification. And till date I am still in APC working hard for its success. “However, we must be very careful as a party in selecting some persons for humiliation over our defeat in the 2020 elections as this doesn’t resolve so many questions begging for answers in our party. “The truth must prevail, the truth must be said and the truth is constant. APC in Edo should embark on comprehensive surgical self examination and get the issues right once and for all. “While people like Senator Obende insisted that he hates oppression, Dr Ehanire has never really demonstrated interest in the activities of Edo APC. By all intent and purpose, these are facts and we should commend them for being open in their stand. “We in Edo north worked very hard to deliver the party in 5 LGAs, we lost the entire Edo South and Edo Central to the PDP. The question is why? Who are the leaders there? Were they not mobilised with huge resources and logistics? Why did we lose so woefully to the PDP? “Why were the leaders that led us to failure in Edo South not humiliated or booed at the national convention grounds? Why were they shielded and yet some persons singled Senator Domingo out for pestering. This is not acceptable by all standards,” Akerele insisted. According to him, “Akoko Edo delivered the APC and that is what should matter to us at this point, why have we not investigated what happened in Edo South? In 2011 it was only Osun state that secured victory for the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) candidate Nuhu Ribadu, nobody asked what happened in Ondo, Oyo, Edo and other states controlled by the same ACN and nobody was molested till date.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details