Twenty years after Jos Main Market was gutted by a mysterious inferno, Plateau State Government has concluded arrangements to reconstruct the market at the cost of N9.4 billion in three phases. The market which had over 270 stalls with various facilities was gutted by fire in 2002 and has since remained in the ruins. Governor Simon Lalong led administration in 2017 signed a pact with fought on International London (, UK) Limited in collaboration with Cynergy Consortium to reconstruct the market without a headway. Speaking with newsmen after the State Executive Council meeting, the State Commissioner of Information Mr Daniel Majang said the decision was reached by the Council at its weekly meeting presided over virtually by Governor Simon Lalong who is currently in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates alongside other Governors to participate in the 11th Annual Investment Summit. According to him, the approval was a sequel to a memo submitted by Hon. Idris Gambo, the Commissioner for Urban Development is supervising the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to the Council with the proposal for a Public-Private Partnership Joint Venture to be funded by Jaiz Bank Nigeria Plc. Dan Manjang said the reconstruction of the Jos Main Market has been one of the priorities of the Lalong Rescue Administration which despite several attempts delayed because of conditions given by various prospective investors. He further explained that the determination and resilience of Governor Simon Lalong to fulfil his campaign promise to the people by ensuring that the market is reconstructed has finally paid off with the agreement by Jaiz Bank Plc. to partner with the Plateau State Government in funding the project. “The project is expected to be completed within the lifetime of this administration, is one of the many legacies the Governor wants to leave behind for the economic prosperity of the State,” he said. Giving details of the PPP Joint Venture, Supervising Commissioner for Commerce and Industry Hon. Idris Gambo said the entire project will be constructed on 44 per cent of the land totalling 7.4 hectares adding that the rest of the land space will provide for parking, banks, fire station, police station, administrative blocks and other facilities. The Commissioner disclosed that the market wholly belongs to Plateau State Government and will be managed by the Jos Main Market Authority while the Investor will recover part of their investment from proceeds of the sale of the shops. Gambo also pointed out that those who were displaced from the burnt market will be given the first option of acquiring the new shops which will be provided under a flexible payment plan to ensure that genuine traders and people of Plateau State are not left out. He added that work on the adjourning roads from the Gangare axis will be intensified with a possibility for dualization to ensure that traffic congestion does not prevail when business activities resume in the market. The Commissioner further added that the estimated total cost for construction of the three phases of the market is 9.4 billion naira. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Plateau govt to reconstruct  Plateau govt to reconstruct Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Plateau govt to reconstruct  Plateau govt to reconstruct ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details