Lagos State government on Thursday allayed the fears being expressed by residents concerning the disagreement between the national and state councils of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), reassuring people of their safety in the state. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, gave this assurance while speaking on Television Continental (TVC) programme: “This Morning,” saying that NURTW as a union of artisans is not a force that cannot be controlled by the government. This was just as the commissioner disclosed that a committee would be set up to handle the affairs of all parks so that law-abiding citizens can go about their daily activities without fear. “NURTW operates in a sector that has relevance to everybody living in Lagos, which is transportation. However, they are just a union of artisans and the likes, but not a force that cannot be controlled by the government. “I want to allay the fear of citizens as the government will set up a committee comprising stakeholders in the sector, who will take over the running of the motor parks and garages,” he said. On curbing what a caller described as the “excesses” of the NURTW, Omotoso said the government suspended their operation to avert a crisis that might arise from the disagreement between the national body and the local chapter, adding that security agencies had been detailed to maintain the peace. “Let me also debunk the erroneous story being circulated on the social media about the union fighting back. I want to advise that our people should learn to take their information from credible sources to avoid misinformation,” Omotoso said. The commissioner, while speaking on the slain 22-year- old lady, Bamishe, who disappeared after riding a BRT bus and was later found dead, said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu personally commiserated with the family and promised that justice would be done in the matter. He assured that BRT buses were still very safe to ride, recalling that the buses had ferried over 40 million passengers since the deployment of the cowry card in 2020. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team