As the Monday sit-at-home in Enugu metropolis went on without any violent occurrence, however unconfirmed reports have it that unknown armed persons had vehicles bearing early morning passengers. The passengers may have been trying to beat the observance of the sit-at-home protest before they ran into the armed killer men. According to some survivors eye witness account, “the gunmen struck around Colliery Hospital, adjacent to Iva Valley Road, near Aria (New Market) Enugu, early this morning. and shot dead some passengers going out for morning business and wounded some. “The police who had arrived after the incident conveyed some of victims with gunshot injuries, including one shot on the stomach with his intestines outside to ESUT Parklane hospital . “One other woman has a bullet that pierced through leg.” PPRO Daniel Nduke,ASP,in response to a demand for confirmation said: “Good morning. There was no such fatal attack. Rather, there was a shooting incident at Odegba, along Iva Valley Road, Enugu in the early hours of this morning, by yet-to-be identified armed men, which led to the injury of two persons. However, the victims are responding to treatment at the hospital where they were promptly taken to by Police Operatives, who swiftly responded to a distress call on the incident. Meanwhile, investigation has been launched to fish out the fleeing miscreants, please”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details