Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State has visited Okpoko near Onitsha, in the Ogbaru Local Government Area of the state, as promised. Tribune Online had earlier reported that Soludo, during his inaugural address to people of the state, in Awka, on Thursday, said he would visit Okpoko on Friday, March 18, 2022, to access the economic condition of the area. Soludo, who arrived in the company with his deputy, Dr Onyekachi Ibezim and other entourage, at noon, went round the various communities. Although, ahead of the visit, street sweepers who had, for some days now, abandoned their duty, were seen clearing the roads and drainages in Upper Iweka and Okpoko environs. But the mountainous heaps of refuse, which adorned major roads in the area, could not be hidden from the governor as he expressed deep worry on sighting them. Nigerian Tribune also learnt that traders, who used to display their wares on major roads, thereby causing gridlock around the area, removed their wares and the roads became clear for the smooth passage of the governor’s convoy. The governor expressed unhappiness with the level of decadence in Okpoko and promised to sanitise the place. He said works would begin in the area immediately. Soludo explained the rationale behind making Okpoko his first place of visit following his inauguration as the state governor on Thursday. He said that since the area had been accepted as the weakest link and the most densely populated area in the state, he had no option, but to begin his administration’s projects from there. He said the clarification had become necessary after he received several reports on why he made the area his first priority. He noted that the people of Okpoko needed more government attention than any part of the state at the moment. Soludo, who addressed the community leaders and members at the St. Lwanga Catholic Church, Okpoko, after visiting other areas, spoke in Igbo language. He said “my people the genius, the unemployed and the criminal. The challenge before us is to decide whether to continue ruing the ugly situation or turn the flipside that will provide us enormous opportunities for the development of our Homeland. “Okpoko is the largest Urban slum in Anambra State. Therefore, we have to begin our urban renewal effort from our weakest link. Like my now 16-year-old daughter once asked me when she was just 14, “it is not enough to wish change or show the will to cause a change. How are you sure, Daddy, that the people themselves want to change?” “Of course, this is not so easy a question to be answered without far-reaching consultation with the people. So far, the people of Okpoko and residents, from Ndikpa to East Niger, are more in a hurry for a change than we can ever be. “That trip I made in 2009 to Okpoko where I was accosted by a little boy, who raced towards me and audaciously demanded, “Soludo nyem ego” still occupies a better part of my memory. That boy and millions like him needs much more than money. They need a life. May God help us!” While tasking the people to remain responsible citizens by paying their taxes and engaging in other civic duties, the governor states categorically, that the issue of touts and illegal collection of levies and taxes has come to an end in Anambra State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Soludo visits Okpoko  Soludo visits Okpoko Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Soludo visits Okpoko  Soludo visits Okpoko ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team