The leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky has distributed foodstuffs worth millions of Naira to the needy to mark the beginning of this year’s (2022) Ramadan fast. A statement from the media arm of the movement released to the Nigerian Tribune in Kaduna on Wednesday evening said the cleric instructed the distribution of the items sugar, rice, maize and millet to the needy Nigerians. According to the statement, “the distribution which started today (Wednesday) at Zaria, is expected to cover the other parts of the county. “Sheikh Zakzaky has been giving foodstuffs to the needy even when he was in detention; after the Buhari-led government killed over a thousand of his supporters including his three biological sons.” The statement added that the cleric sends his best wishes to Muslims all over the world and assures them of his prayers throughout the Islamic fasting season. “The food items distribution includes the internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Katsina, Niger, Sokoto and Zamfara States, who were in various IDP camps in their respective States and communities in Northern Nigeria who are in need of food during fasting of the month of Ramadan. “Over 15 northern States are expected to benefit from the kind gesture of the Sheikh. “Christians from the southern part of the country will also benefit from the gesture of Sheikh El-Zakzaky,” the statement declared. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details