As the preparations for the forthcoming general elections hot up across the registered political parties, the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), on Tuesday, ratified Dr Olu Agunloye as the substantive National Chairman of the party at its NEC meeting held in Abuja. Also, the meeting ratified the Acting National Publicity Secretary (NPS), Ambassador Rufus Aiyenigba, as the substantive NPS and Hon Chuma Uchechukwu as the National Speaker, Youth Parliament respectfully. Addressing the NEC in session, the National Secretary, Alhaji Shehu Musa Garbam, stressed the need to ratify the election of the National Chairman and others who have been functioning in acting capacities ahead of the general elections. On the state of the party, he declared that SDP would witness a mass influx of new decampees from other political parties on a matter of weeks based on the high level of discussions and consultations going on in all the states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja with people willing to join the party ahead of the general educations. The national secretary then called for a motion from members for the ratification of the three national officers. Consequently, the Chairman of the Rivers State Chapter of the party, Hon Saul Saro, moved the motion for the ratification which was supported by the Chairman of Akwa Ibom State Chapter, Hon Willington Odiom. In a vice vote, Agunloye and others were ratified with wild jubilations. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In his acceptance speech, Agunloye thanked all the organs of the party that approved the ratification of the national offices and who have been imbibing the repositioning of the party which started immediately he assumed office in acting capacity. Dr Agunloye who assured that the party under his leadership would restore hope to the nation in all aspects of human endeavours said, ” I stand here before you to bring you hope. The SDP family brings Nigerians hope. It is not the first time, it started 20 years ago. We will continue to give you hope. “We have seen systems failure, electricity collapse. We bring hope and assurance because we are providing Nigerians with an alternative platform. We no longer agree to make a choice between the devil and the deep blue sea. We are offering an alternative to rescue Nigeria.” He paid glory tributes to all the party’s presidential aspirants especially Dorothy Nuhu, Prof Femi Olufunmilade, Dr Kabiru Daodu and Prince Adewole Adebayo who also were in attendance at the NEC meeting along with the Ekiti State governorship candidate of the party, Chief Segun Oni. According to him, “we have these four aspirants bringing hope. We are going to produce a governor in Ekiti in June. We are going to bring new ways of doing things in Nigeria.” Addressing the NEC, Chief Oni who stormed the session with the Director-General of his campaign organization, Ambassador Dare Bejide to bring hope to the people of the state who were anxiously waiting for the election day to turn out to vote massively for SDP in an election they had brandied as their last of having good governance on the state. According to him, “Ekiti people are waiting for the SDP, the expectations are very high, the people will vote for the party massively, they know what they wanted, they are not fools, good governance for the entire country will start from Ekiti.” In their remarks, the four presidential aspirants said that they decided to run on the platform of the party because of its policies and ideologies of transparency and accountability which other parties with big names lacked over the years. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details