In line with the FCT 2019 Parks Policy, the Federal Capital Territory Administration, has performed the ground breaking ceremony of the beautification and landscaping of the Umaru Musa Yar’adua Express Way in collaboration with property developers along the road. Performing the ceremony on behalf of the Administration, FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, said the move was in line with the 2019 parks policy by granting permit to corporate organizations, multinationals and diplomatic communities for the purpose of exercising their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the enhancement of greening of the city. The minister said the administration had solicited for the cooperation of some few organizations located along the Umaru Musa Yar’adua express way to compliment the efforts of the FCT Administration in the improvement of the aesthetics of the diplomatic road by landscaping, beautification and maintenance of the frontage of their property to compliment the major gateway leading to the city centre. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Aliyu affirmed that the partnership with private entities was a clear demonstration that government cannot do everything on its own, while assuring that the Administration shall continue to work with the private sector and development partners to ensure that continuous progress is made in the beautification of the nation’s capital. She also assured that the Administration was guided by core values of patriotism and dedication to duty; integrity, and respect for due process and rule of law, while pledging that nobody would be subcharged in this partnership. On his part, the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, commended the property owners along major Abuja landmark who have come together for the implementation of this laudable initiative as a way of giving back to the society. He, therefore, used the occasion to urge other corporate organizations to come together and emulate the actions of the property owners along the Abuja airport road to add value to the aesthetics of the city. In his words, “It is indeed gratifying to note that corporate organizations and even residents of the FCT share the vision of the FCT Administration in building an Abuja of our collective dreams which we will be proud to call home.” The highpoint of the occasion was a symbolic planting of trees by the FCT Minister of State, Permanent Secretary, Director of Human Resource, Malam Bashir Mohammed, Coordinator of Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, Arch. Umar Shuaibu, Development Partners and property owners along the airport road, amongst others. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details