The immediate past Deputy President of the Nigerian Senate and former ECOWAS parliament Speaker, who, with an unveiled ambition to succeed incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as the next governor has debunked the rumour making the rounds that he has purchased forms for the Senate. Senator Ekweremadu currently serving his fifth tenure as senator representing Enugu West Senatorial zone had on March 11, 2022 declared publicly his intention to vie for the Enugu governorship seat and had gone ahead to purchase the governorship contest forms from the PDP. His declaration had drawn the ire of some his party men and Enugu state contemporaries who insist that there exists a zoning arrangement which neither favours his zone nor supports his ambition, but Ekeremadu has described that as deceptive and fallacious. The recent report that he has changed gear and purchased a senatorial form, according to Ekweremadu associates and political observers may not be unconnected to the heightened political opposition and upheaval caused by his declaration for governorship come 2023. Reacting to this development, Senator Ekweremadu who is said to be abroad on a national assignment, said through his campaign group in press statement titled Disclaimer”, that the general public should ‘Disregard the fake news in circulation insinuating that HE Sen. Ike Ekweremadu CFR has picked PDP senatorial form for the forth coming election. Such is nothing but cheap and laughable fabricated propaganda. “The fake news is circulated and promoted by agents of distraction who feels defeated and are now out to misinform the general public. “The form being paraded online by false information peddlers was a picture taken in 2018 when HE. Sen. Ekweremadu picked his form to return to the senate in 2019.” The statement by Chinonso Orji, a DG in the campaign group stated further that
“HE Sen. Ike Ekweremadu CFR is currently in UAE attending the International Parliament for Tolerance and Peace conference in Dubai. “Ndi Enugu and general public are advised to disregard such cheap malicious information and the peddlers.” The statement enthused that “We are happy that HE Sen. Ike Ekweremadu’s pathway to a new Enugu is overwhelmingly resonating with the people. That is what matters for now. “Therefore, we refuse to be distracted. We have gone through this path before and we trust God that this too shall pass.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details