IT was a day of national mourning after a Monday attack on Kaduna-bound train by terrorists. The terrorists on Monday night bombed and successfully immobilised the 970 passenger-filled Abuja-Kaduna train. It was gathered that the terrorists planted explosives on the rail tracks and bombed the train just before Rijana, a community along the rail line in Kaduna notorious for kidnapping and other security breaches. Nigerian Tribune gathered that as of Tuesday, eight bodies were recovered, 26 passengers were injured, while others were still unaccounted for. However, the evacuation of the survivors of the attack was concluded by the Kaduna State government in collaboration with the security agencies, and state emergency officials. The Kaduna State Government says it has received from the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) the detailed passenger manifest for the Abuja-Kaduna train service AK9 which was attacked. This was contained in a statement issued by the Commissioner for Internal security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan on Tuesday. According to the documents received, 398 passengers bought tickets for the trip, but 362 were validated as having boarded the train through the recognised turn-stile. It also said the passenger manifest did not include NRC staff and security officials who were on board. The statement said that “security agencies have reported that eight bodies were recovered and 26 persons were injured during the attack. Investigations are still ongoing to ascertain the status of the passengers who were on board the train and remain unaccounted for at the time of this update. Search operations are also being sustained. Citizens are requested to contact the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency on the phone line 09088923398, to make enquiries or provide information regarding passengers who were on board the Abuja-Kaduna train AK9.” The statement equally added that many of those who were wounded or sustained serious injuries were taken to hospitals. Survivors recount ordeals A former Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Ibrahim Wakkala recounted his ordeal by ascribing his survival to God. He said when they started hearing gunshots close to their coach, he knew something was amiss. Ac- cording to him, the military presence really helped, say- ing the casualties or fatalities could have been more. Fatima Shuaibu, a student and one of the survivors, gave a detailed account of the attack. “I was sitting close to the window when I saw the bandits or terrorists throw something like a bomb and the train started shaking. When the train finally stopped, the bandits started shooting; they broke the door of the train beside the VIP side,” she said. Continuing further, she said: “the bandits came inside, shot at some of the passengers while they took some passengers inside a bush path before the security operatives came about one hour thirty minutes after the attack. I saw about 500 security personnel who came to rescue us.” She also recalled, that the bandits targeted the VIP coach, after which they went to the economy side, SP 17, where they shot many people. “They told us they came with five cars and motorcycles that they would take some of the people away in. When the soldiers came, they started exchanging gunfire. As they were shooting, the terrorists started shouting ‘Allahu Akbar! Allahu Akbar!! The security operatives came inside the train and drove us to safety. Those injured were taken to 44 military hospital and St. Gerald hospital.” She recalled that some of the terrorists were teenagers, just as they looked Chadian and Nigerien. Another survivor, Muhammadu Ishaq, told Nigerian Tribune that “I did not see when they boarded the train. I just turned and I heard them saying that everybody should come out, and I left the coach. I don’t know how many people were taken away. l met two people on the floor laying helplessly as though they were dead already. They were speaking in Hausa, but they were Fulani; one was telling the other to use the gun to break the door, then they started shooting. I saw two people dead. The security personnel came after one and half hours.” Maimuna Ibrahim, another survivor who had a bullet in her leg, however, said she was lucky as it did not touch her bone. She thanked the Nigerian Army and the police for rescuing them. Relatives lament missing loved ones Relatives of the victims have started expressing grief over the whereabouts of their loved ones, while praying for their safe return from wherever they may be. The relatives were observed to have become traumatised because they did not know the fate and the whereabouts of their loved ones. They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews at the train station on Tuesday in Kaduna that the train officials were yet to give them satisfactory answers regarding the fate of their loved ones. Mr Abdulaziz Kassim, a brother to one of the victims, seen consoling their distraught mother at the train station, said he spoke with his brother few hours before news broke out about the sad incident. “He has been missing since yesterday’s tragic incident occurred; we had of it in the night and that is why we came here this morning, his number is going through but there has been no response. The train officials are yet to tell us anything about the missing persons. They, however, said some were at the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, we went there but we couldn’t find him, we pray that God should keep them and return them back to us safely,” he prayed. Also, Gideon Gambo, an elder brother to two of the victims of the train attack, said he boarded the train from Kaduna to Abuja on the fateful day. “When we reached Abuja, I called my two brothers, Jessy Gambo and Gayus Gambo individually, to inform them that I had arrived and that I would see them the following day so that we can return to Kaduna together. “They said they were in a hurry to meet up an appointment, and they will take the next trip to Kaduna. Later at about 10.55 p.m., the Chief Security Officer of the train who is my friend called to inform me of the sad event. “Then, I immediately called my brothers but their numbers were not going through. I had to drive down to Kaduna this early morning to get information on what is happen- ing and the state of my brothers whose whereabouts are unknown and that of others. “I called one of the cleaners who I know is working with the train station, he said they are also yet to see or hear from their colleagues who were on duty when the tragic incident happened. “Officials of the train station are yet to give us any detailed information, our prayer is that God should keep them safe wherever they are,”Gambo prayed. Also speaking, some of the members of the taxi drivers union at the train station said eight of their members felt victims of the tragic incident. A senior official of the union who craved anonymity while speaking with NAN said that only four out of the eight members of their union who were victims of the attack came back devastated. The officials of the train station when contacted for comments or any information regarding the missing persons declined comment. Attempts to speak with the top management of the train station also proved abortive. NMA mourns late doctor Meanwhile, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) on Tuesday mourned the death of one of its members, Dr Chinelo Megafu Nwando, who was shot by bandits that attacked the Kaduna-bound train. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Dr Aniekeme Uwah, on Tuesday, the NMA described the medical doctor’s death as “tragic, horrific ad preventable death”, saying the worsening state of insecurity in the country has made all Nigerians vulnerable. The NMA said the tragic death of the medical doctor, who until her death was serving at the Kaduna State Dental Centre and St Gerrard’s Hospital Kakuri, exemplifies how innocent Nigerians are killed while trying to get their daily bread. TUC loses prominent members Sadly too, the national leadership of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has lamented the death of its General Secretary, Barrister Musa Lawal Ozigi, and the Kwara State chairman, Akinsola Akinwunmi to the attack. A senior member of the national leadership who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the news but blamed the attacks and the death of Ozigi on what he termed “the denial and inactions of the All Progress Congress (APC) led Federal Government on how terrible the security situation in the country is.” Also, the immediate past chairman of the TUC in Ilorin, Kunle Olumoh who confirmed the demise of his colleague, Akinwunmi, said they were supposed to be part of a meeting of the TUC on Tues- day. BoA MD among missing victims The Bank of Agriculture (BoA) was not spared this trauma as its Managing Director, Alwan Hassan, was reportedly among the victims kidnapped by the terrorists. A source close to the BoA boss’ family on Tuesday, said Hassan’s line has been switched off since after the Monday evening attack with no one able to reach him. “We cannot tell if he has been kidnapped or not but we are worried because we have been unable to reach him. His phone lines have been switched off and no one has contacted the bank or any of his family members,” the source said. The source noted that Hassan boarded the train with one of his nieces. COAS orders troops to hunt down perpetrators The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, on Tuesday visited the scene of the attack and ordered troops to intensify search and rescue operations as well as hunt down the terrorists. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, said this in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja. Nwachukwu said the COAS had assessed the security situation around the general area of the attack and inspected the attacked train, as well as the rail track to evaluate the degree of damage. He said Yahaya was accompanied by some principal staff officers of the Army Headquarters and the General Officer Commanding 1 Division. “He ordered the troops of the Nigerian army and other security agencies to intensify their search and rescue operations to ensure that the kidnapped victims were rescued unconditionally. “The COAS has also assured Nigerians that the troops would be undeterred and vehement in the fight against banditry and other forms of criminality.” Stop night train operations, railway workers charge NRC The Nigerian Union of Railway Workers (NUR) has called on the management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to stop night train operations following the attack on Monday evening. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the NUR lamented that all its security observations expressed to the NRC management on improving the security and safety of the train service were not taken, especially its advice that night train service be stopped till security situation of the service is improved with on-train CCTV, explosive detectors and other technology-based approaches. This was contained in a statement signed by the union’s Secretary General, Segun Esan. Survivors need blood A government house tweet that was shared on various social media platforms indicated that some of the survivors were in need of urgent blood donation. Thus, when the Nigerian Tribune visited the 44 Military Hospital and the St. Gerald Hospital, Kaduna, where many of the survivors were taken, the doctor in charge of the accident and emergency section, Col. J.A. Ikagba told Nigerian Tribune that the survivors were being stabilised. The 16 survivors brought to the hospital were Haruna Muhammad, Muhammad Modibo, Ibrahim Wakkala, Yakubu Nuhu, Abdullahi Yahaya, Ismail Saidu, Abdul Malik Rasheedat, Umar Mohammed, Hadiza Umar, Musa Ishawan, Aisha Yusuf, Mohammed Amin, Abubakar Hauwu, Aliyu Suleiman, Olasibikun Bilkisu and Mrs Leola Absulbasit. Buhari directs integrated security surveillance implementation *I’m deeply pained by second attack on Abuja-Kaduna train, he says President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday directed the immediate conclusion of all the processes for the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution for the Abuja to Kaduna railway line. He also said that this should be extended to cover the Lagos-Ibadan railway line. According to a statement issued by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) on Tuesday, the President gave these directives in Abuja, Tuesday, after receiving briefs from the Service Chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Faruk Yahaya, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, as well as Major General Samuel Adebayo, the Chief of Defence Intelligence and the Director General of the Department of State Services, DSS, Yusuf Magaji Bichi in the State House. Additionally, the President charged the law enforcement chiefs to bring back all passengers kidnapped and ensure that each of the callous terrorists are hunted down and made to face justice for their heinous acts as no one or group should be allowed to make the country prostrate. He reiterated his earlier directive that the military should deal ruthlessly with terrorists. He asked them to be more decisive and not spare anyone unlawfully wielding the AK 47 weapon. “No one should be allowed to hold the country to ransom,” said the President. President Buhari strongly condemned the bombing of the passenger train, describing it as a “matter of grave concern.” The statement further quoted the President as saying: “Like most Nigerians, I am deeply pained by its occurrence, the second of its type, which has resulted in the death of a yet to be determined number of passengers and others who suffered injuries. The attack on the train, a safe means of transport to many, is callous; and our thoughts are with the families of the deceased and prayers for the injured,” he said. Tinubu cancels colloquium to celebrate his 70th birthday National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday, announced cancellation of the colloquium organised for him to celebrate his 70th birthday as the event was about to officially kickstart, shortly after the national anthem had been said. Tinubu, who took to the podium, accompanied by the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and some other personalities, said he had an important message to pass, urging everyone to listen. The former Lagos State governor, and also a presidential aspirant on APC platform for the 2023 general election, noted that the occasion was supposed to be a joyful celebration of his 70th birthday, expressing gratitude to God for allowing him see the day, but said he had just been informed of the scores of people that lost their lives in the train attack that occurred in Kaduna State, describing the incident as very sad. “It is a very sad incident and it calls for sober reflection. To be here dancing and celebrating doesn’t show enough concerns as a senior citizen,” he added. He, therefore, announced the cancellation of the event, saying this was also based on some consultations he had engaged in with some of the personalities around, and an agreement reached. Atiku, Saraki, Sani condemn attack Presidential aspirants, Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki and former lawmaker, Shehu Sani have condemned the terror attack. The politicians also called on the government to pay more attention to securing lives and property in the country. In a statement on his Twitter handle, Atiku said: “The attack on Abuja to Kaduna bound train that reportedly left many injured and some kidnapped is condemnable. The government’s commitment to the protection of the life and property of the people must remain sacrosanct. My thoughts and prayers are with all who are affected.” Former Senate president, Saraki tweeted, “We need real solutions to address this menace and end the loss of lives of innocent Nigerians. My prayers are with the hundreds of people and their families who are affected by this senseless attack. I pray that the attackers will be apprehended forthwith and our security agencies enhance their efforts on all our roads, ports, and railways.” The former lawmaker from Kaduna, Shehu lamented that lessons were not learnt from a previous attack and promises made then too had been abandoned. He tweeted, “They killed some, they injured some and they kidnapped some. The train attack was preventable. Lessons weren’t learnt from the last tragedy. The trains weren’t equipped with sensors to detect explosives & the promise of the use of helicopters to protect the trains was abandoned.” Bombard terrorist enclaves, Senate cries out to military The Senate has called on the Army and Airforce to, as a matter of urgency, bombard terrorist enclaves with a view to restoring peace and stability in the country. The call was made on Tuesday amid resolutions reached, following a point of order raised on “the continuing attacks on communities and public facilities in Kaduna State.” The point of order was raised by Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central). The lawmaker noted that terrorists have in recent times stepped up attacks on some communities and public facilities in Kaduna State. According to him, “the latest attacks by these murderous elements took place in some communities in Giwa Local Government, namely Angwan Sarki Yahya, Tashar Shari, Bare-Bari, Tsaunin Natal, Dillalai, Durumi and Jatin Kanwa, all on Yakawada Ward.” He bemoaned the attacks by bandits on a Kaduna bound train carrying over 970 passengers around Kateri – Rijana axis in Kaduna, just a few kilometres to the Rigasa Train Station in Igabi Local Government Area of the state. Contributing, Senator Gabriel Suswam lamented that Kaduna had become the new theatre of insecurity. On his part, Senator Danjuma La’ah, said if the security situation in the country is not nipped in the bud, political leaders would become the main targets of terrorists. The Senate, accordingly, in its resolutions, urged President Muhammadu Buhari, to declare full scale war against terrorists, so as to fully secure all our national territory from them in whatever guise.  El-Rufai condemns attack Governor Nasir El-Rufai while condemning the attack described it as the worst crime against humanity. He made this known on Tuesday while he visited St. Gerald Hospital and 44 Military Hospital to commiserate. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details