A Foundation the Health Place has revealed that patients suffering from hypertension, fibroid, Obesity breast cancer and others could get herbal cure. The Foundation which is a registered online company has been existing for over 12 years with the founder, Ola using natural herbs to cure some ailments. A document obtained from the Foundation said “our Locally sourced and Imported products help make committing to a healthier lifestyle easily. “We embrace ingredient purity, integrity, environmental sustainability, social and environmental responsibility, and closeness with nature. As a certified green business, we specialize in selling organic botanicals, herbs, spices, plant-derived carriers and essential oils. “We believe that everyone has the power to make small incremental changes in their health and wellness to make substantial changes in health-related diseases like Obesity, Diabetes, Hypertension, Infertility etc”. The document further stated that “Ola decided to make major lifestyle changes in her life after discovering that her grandmother was diagnosed with breast cancer. “After medical checks, she realized that she had fibroids and lumps in her left breast, she zealously researched alternative natural remedies that could work for her and with a great deal of commitment, with attention to efficacy and safety, she is happy to announce not only is she happier and healthier today, her ailments have been naturally reversed and is in the best shape of her life”. Health Place said they share research-based information on herbs and professional guidelines on how to use those herbs, the possible side effects and other things. “At the Health Place, education is a fundamental part of our company. We share research-based information on herbs, professional guidance on their use, possible side effects and interactions, and holistic information on each product at www.thehealthplaceafrica.com. “We are changing the health narrative; by educating and empowering our customers by unlearning and relearning all they have known about herbs and natural alternatives. “Our goal is to be the one-stop health and wellness hub in Africa and foremost exporter of African herbs to the rest of the world. “Our mission is to make it easier for customers to browse online and buy all the products they love on one site. Customers get free delivery for orders above N60,000 with the country”, the document added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Health-based Foundation provides herbal alternative  Health-based Foundation provides herbal alternative  Health-based Foundation provides herbal alternative Health-based Foundation provides herbal alternative ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity