Former Deputy national youth leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Afeez Bolaji Repete, has slammed some leaders of the party for not considering members of the party in Oyo State for offices at the national level. Repete, while announcing his withdrawal from the Vice-Chairmanship race during the national convention of the party held in Abuja at the weekend noted that: “I would like to set the record straight. It has been the tradition of the southwest zone of our party that any state in the southwest without a sitting governor always has the highest office zoned to the southwest. “But unfortunately, our leaders are not being sensitive to the plight of members from Oyo State at this point in time when our state is being governed by an opposition party and this is very sad. Oyo State is the only state without a sitting governor in the southwest, it happened in 2014 when Ekiti was being governed by an opposition party. “The highest office zoned to the south-west was given to Ekiti State. Why is the case of Oyo State different now? But for the love I have for the party, the leaders in the south-west and the love I have for Senator Abiola Ajimobi’s political dynasty, I hereby withdraw my national vice-chairman (south-west).” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details