Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has directed political appointees as well as public servants aspiring for political offices in 2023 to resign on or before 31st, March 2022. This was contained in a circular issued by the Secretary to the State Government, Balarabe Lawal Abbas and obtained by the Tribune Online on Wednesday. In a circular addressed to the heads of tertiary institutions, SSAs, SAS, and top government officials reminded the top government officials of the new electoral act ascended by President Muhammadu Buhari which was released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The statement noted that the act categorically provides that such officers should resign 30 days before the party’s primary elections of the specific post they are aspiring for. To this end, in compliance with the provision, all political appointees, and other public servants serving in the state government aspiring for political offices should submit their resignation letters to the SSG on or before 31st, March 2022. ‘This is your information and strict compliance please, the statement declared. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  2023: El-Rufai directs appointees, public servants to resign 2023: El-Rufai directs appointees, public servants to resign 2023: El-Rufai directs appointees, public servants to resign 2023: El-Rufai directs appointees, public servants to resign ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity