Gubernatorial aspirants under the platform of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State have been warned against campaigns of calumny in their bid to become the consensus candidate after the party primaries. According to the state chairman of the party, Barr Kingsley Esiso who stated this on Wednesday in Asaba during the public expression of the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, to contest the governorship elections, the aspirants should do their campaigns with decorum realising that others are in the field. He remarked: “We encourage members of the PDP to aspire to various positions because we are aware that nobody pays money to aspire. The implication of this is that aspiration is free. The speaker has expressed his aspirations to contest for the governorship of Delta State. “Mr Speaker, you are welcome and free to aspire. But please, I advise that you must realize that just as you have the right to aspire as governor of Delta State, so do other persons have the same rights to aspire for the same position. “Therefore, you are free to go about the nook and cranny of the state to sell your aspiration. But as you are doing that, please do it with decorum realising that other aspirants in the field are your brothers and sisters. “By May, one of you (aspirants) will emerge as the candidate of the party and we will all queue behind him. I assure you that as a party, we have the responsibility to ensure that we organize very free, fair and credible primaries through which our candidate will emerge.” Earlier, Hon Oborevwori summarised his agenda under four thematic areas; Meaningful development, Opportunity for all, Realistic reforms, Enhanced peace and security. “My vision is to keep Delta State ahead in all aspects of socio-economic wellbeing. The mission is to operate an open and responsive government that will meet the needs and aspirations of our people.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details