Versatile gospel music minister, Shade Oshoba, in this interview with SEYI SOKOYA, speaks about her ministry and what the church and the industry can do to raise hopes during the hard times currently being experienced in the country.  Many Nigerians are lamenting the current state of the country. How have the gospel music industry and the church at large been feeling the heat? You will agree with me that when the economy of a nation goes through what we are experiencing now in Nigeria, every sector feels the heat, but the comfort we have in the gospel music industry is the grace of divine inspiration which God has given us to heal the broken-hearted and console those who are on the verge of giving up. Therefore, we are engaged spiritually to minister to men’s souls and raise hope for the hopeless.  What can the industry and church do to raise hopes amidst the hardship in the country? The church is trying, and some individuals have been putting smiles on people’s faces in diverse ways. But I feel we can still do more till it spreads to every nook and cranny of the nation. Exclusive empowerment programmes, training, investing in talents and mentoring will go a long way. Though some churches are doing that already, more can still be done. Gospel music ministers should be seen as creative content providers who should be encouraged and sponsored as it is with secular music industry. Hence, they should be honoured, treated with respect, and motivated financially.  You are one of the promising gospel music ministers promoting spiritual songs. What is the unique concept you have brought into the gospel music industry? I introduced the Yoruba traditional Apala genre into the gospel music space with the motive of giving people a distinct experience laced with spiritual lyrics. Though this was largely criticised, glory be to God, today, it is accepted and highly celebrated by people all over the world.  How did you discover your passion for music? While growing up, I saw my father play a couple of “Apala” and “Waka” music. This, I believe, was what stirred my passion for music. I took it up professionally in 2002 and the experience has been interesting.  Why gospel music? It is gospel because I believe I have a message in every song for everyone. The experience has been awesome. I enjoy what I do and I am blessed to see people receive healings, breakthrough and deliverance through the atmosphere of worship during my ministrations.  What are the challenges like? The challenges are numerous, but we are not relenting or discouraged to be a vessel. Running with a vision in a highly competitive music community, financing heavily-budgeted projects without sponsors or support, marketing and distributing content to generate desired financial profits, and discouragement from established authority are some of the issues. This could terminate one’s talent. I have been so committed to be discouraged and God has given my calling a divine facelift.  How many works do you have to your credit? About 40 songs and 15 professional music videos.  The competition among the female folks is very high; how do you intend to break in? I hope to do this through my uniqueness, the message I am carrying, and staying focused on my passion until I fulfill my purpose.  Who is your role model in the industry? Internationally – Cece Winans, Mary Mary and Whitney Houston, and in Nigeria, Tope Alabi and Mama Bola Are.  What other things do you venture into aside music? Acting, TV presentation, film production, magazine production and decorations. With the help of God, I also want to explore the modeling industry this year.  Are you satisfied with the state of things in the gospel music industry? No. So many things have to change. You can imagine after spending millions of naira to produce a very good song, shoot beautiful videos, and invest so much in radio, television, social media platforms promotions, nobody seems to appreciate your intellectual work. It can be frustrating, you know. I think the government, individuals, and corporate organizations should also invest in the gospel music industry and if they choose to show no concern, religious bodies should fully come to the rescue.  How have you been able to combine the home-front with your career? God has been helping me achieve this with the support of a wonderful husband He gave me. He has been so supportive. I believe he was made for me to shine and excel in ministry. He allows me to explore all my passions. He has never frustrated me or turned me down when I tried to do something new. He is a perfect example of humility and a pillar of encouragement. Paul Oshoba, God bless you real good.  Even as a gospel musician, the temptation is bound to occur with admirers from all around; how do you handle them? First and foremost, my husband is my best friend, my gist partner, and my secret keeper. We have a no ‘secret policy’ so we tell each other the truth about everything and he is not a jealous lover. When secret admirers begin to mount pressure I quickly inform him and most of my decisions are decided by him. Left to me, I would send a warning signal, but he has a special way of calming me down. Some of them could even be useful in the future.  How do you plan to expand your fan base? I believe good contents attract good people. I will keep doing great exploits in life and ministry. I am lovable and I socialise easily; so I tell people jokingly sometimes to follow me on my social media platforms. I intend to commence a monthly online live concert very soon. This, I trust, will also help expand my fan base.  Your growing up and educational background? Growing up was a tug of war. I had a soldier as a passionate father who instilled discipline that shaped my life with a ‘never-give-up ideology.’ He died when I was in junior secondary school and it was suggested that I should drop out of school and learn the sawmill trading business, but I wholeheartedly rejected that thought, knowing my father would be disappointed if I settled for less. Miraculously, God came to my rescue and I enjoyed one favour or the other until I finished my secondary school education. I have lived most of my life in Ogun State before I met my husband. I attended Army Command Nursery and Primary School, Lafenwa, Abeokuta; Baptist Girls College, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta; Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye and most recently, I enrolled for international courses on presentation and music productions.   ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team