A physically challenged and Coordinator of Persons With Disabilities (PWDs) in Ibadan North Local Government Area of Oyo State, Nurudeen Wasiu, has commended the governor of the state, Mr Seyi Makinde, for considering a reasonable number of Persons With Disabilities in the local government area for various appointments in both public and civil service in the state. He noted that for governor Makinde to have so much affection for PWDs as well as for the general populace of the state, he deserves second term in office. Wasiu, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former member of Caretaker Committee in Ibadan North Local Government also commended the Special Adviser to governor Makinde on Disability Matter, Mr Ayodele Adekanmbi for his unparalleled representation in the Oyo State government. Speaking with journalists in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital, at the weekend, Wasiu said since the inception of the fourth Republic in 1999, no government has ever employed 150 persons living with disabilities in a row in Oyo state. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He also commended the effort of the governor at providing sustainable livelihoods for persons living with disabilities through the office of Mr Adekanmbi. Wasiu stated that without access to quality education and sustainable livelihoods, children living with disabilities would not be able to contribute meaningfully to the economy, but governor Makinde has given them livelihoods by providing jobs. “I have discovered that across all sectors of our national life, which include transportation, housing, environment and education, people with special needs go through harrowing experiences that need urgent attention. “And to this end, I thank governor Makinde for giving us attention, there was no time there would be job opportunities in the state, that our people will not be given special consideration. “I am bold to say that since the beginning of this present political dispensation in 1999, there was no government that has the interest of physically challenged people like governor Makinde. “Considering this factor and others in the area of development, remuneration for workers, payment of pensioners and others, Governor Makinde deserve the second term in office. And I’m using this medium to appeal to him to declare his intention to run for the second term.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Makinde commended over involvement of persons with disabilities in governance Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Makinde commended over involvement of persons with disabilities in governance ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team