2023: Peter Obi says whoever emerges as PDP’s Presidential Flagbearer Shall be respected by Party members Former Anambra State Governor, Mr Peter Obi has said that whoever emerges as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate will be respected by party members. The Vice Presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections said this while fielding questions from the newsmen in Minna after visiting the Niger State Secretariat of PDP. Obi, who said he was in Minna, Niger State on a private visit, explained that the decision to respect the decision of PDP is that the party is bigger than all of them. He however advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ensure that only people who are competent and have the capacity to lead are to be chosen as flag bearers to further put them on the path of success. According to him, people who are competent in the affairs of Nigeria should be given the chance to provide the necessary changes needed to propel the country to achieve greatness. He advised people to ask about the background of any aspirant during campaigns. Obi maintained that “we cannot continue like this and thus the need for a complete departure to an era of sustainable progress and development”. Former governor of Niger State, Dr Muazu Babangida Aliyu and the State’s Chairman of the PDP, Tanko Beji were unanimous in their submissions that Nigerians are waiting for PDP, and as such, they must come as a united front to enable them to take advantage of this opportunity. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details