Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State has ordered all public servants in the state to always report to work on Mondays, like other weekdays or risk sanction. Since the resumption of the trial of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the group had earlier called for a shutdown of businesses on Mondays but later rescinded it. Despite the rescinding of the decision by the agitated group, there has been fear of attacks on those who go to work, leading to continued stay at home every Monday in Eastern states of Nigeria. In some parts of the state, Saturdays have been adopted as working days, including schools and banks as a replacement for Monday. But in a move to return Monday to normal working days, governor Soludo on Monday through the Head of Service, Barr. Theodora Igwegbe ordered workers to always ensure they are at their duty posts on Mondays. In a circular dated today 25th March 2022, which was signed by the Head of Service, Barrister Theodora Igwegbe and sighted by Nigerian Tribune, Soludo warned that absence from work on Mondays will attract sanctions. Part of the memo read: “Following the need to reposition the service for better performance and productivity, His Excellency, the governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has directed that henceforth, all public servants should report at their places of work every Monday like every other weekday. “Consequently, absence from work on Monday, or any other workday without any approval will be viewed as serious misconduct, which will attract appropriate sanctions. This directive takes immediate effect,” the memo read. Soludo had last year lamented the continued boycott of work on Mondays in the South East, saying that the zone loses an estimated N19.6billion every Monday. During his inaugural speech as governor, last two weeks, Soludo had extended an olive branch to all armed groups, saying he was ready to engage them in a round table discussion. He lamented that many criminals now hide under freedom fighting to perpetuate criminality. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…IPOB sit-at-home  IPOB sit-at-home Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…IPOB sit-at-home IPOB sit-at-home ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details