Scores of buildings were destroyed in the Akure community in Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State on Saturday evening by heavy rainfall. It was gathered that the downpour which started about 7 pm and lasted several hours, destroyed property worth millions of naira in Abiodun Aloba community, around Ondo road in Akure. Some residents of the area explained that the rain which was accompanied by a wind destroyed many buildings blowing off rooftops and destroying many shops in the area. One of the victims, who identified herself as Olamide said that her house was affected by the incident, saying her husband was not around when the incident happened. She said, “the roof of our house was removed by the rainstorm, destroying some of our personal belongings while the whole house was flooded with water. We are begging the state government to come to our assistance.” Some residents of the community affected by the incident called on the state government and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to come to their aid, saying the destruction was too much for them to bear. Another resident, Ola Omoniyi, also appealed to the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, and representatives of the area at the state and national assemblies to assist the victims. He said most of the affected places include business centres, medicine stores, stalls saying the destruction affects the social and economic activities of the community. He said, “There is a need for quick intervention as the victims have no place to stay, so many people have been rendered homeless.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.