The United States (US) Embassy in Abuja has announced that from March 30, 2022, it will begin processing certain non-immigrant visa renewal applications without requiring an interview. According to a notice posted on the Embassy’s website, there would be no interviews for visa renewals where: The visa is B1/B2, F, M, J (academic only), H, L, or C1/D (combined only); The applicant previously received a U.S. non-immigrant visa that expired within the last 24 months, or will expire in the next three months from the date of application; The previous visa was issued in Nigeria; The previous visa was a full validity, multiple entry visa; The applicant is applying for the same visa classification as the prior approved visa; ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The applicant has never been arrested or convicted of any crime in the United States (even if they later received a pardon or waiver); The applicant has never worked without authorization or overstayed in the United States; and The applicant has not had any significant life changes. The US Embassy Abuja notice added that “Each applicant must individually meet all the requirements.  Please note, a parent’s qualifications cannot extend to a child.  The child must independently meet each requirement.  The number of applicants accepted for the Interview Waiver Program may initially be limited.” The US Embassy Abuja advised qualified applicants seeking to utilise the no-interview programme to set an appointment for document review online, adding that applicants won’t have access to their passport until completion of processing which may be up to two months.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details