THERE was confusion on Saturday morning as a dispatch rider was arrested by residents of Sangotedo area of Ajah with a stolen baby in his courier box. The Public Relations Officer of the state police command, Adekunle Ajisebutu, said that the case was not reported with the police, but added that the state commissioner of police, Abiodun Alabi had ordered a thorough investigation into the incident. In a video, which went viral on Saturday morning, an angry mob descended on the despatch rider after claiming to have found a baby in his courier box. The stolen baby and the accused dispatch rider were later seen being taken away by an unidentified person on a motorcycle. Ajisebutu, a Chief Superintendent of Police in a statement on Saturday said: “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a video going viral on social media alleging that a yet-to- be- identified dispatch rider stole a child found and recovered in a dispatch box. “The command wishes to inform the public that the incident said to have taken place in Sangotedo area, Lekki, was not reported at any police station to enable the police take appropriate actions.” Ajisebutu also added that “Notwithstanding that the incident was not reported, the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed that efforts should be intensified to locate the whereabouts of the alleged dispatch rider and the parents or guardians of the child to enable the police to investigate the incident.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more