A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Friday, ordered committal proceedings against the Managing Director, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Ahmed Lawal Kuru, over the alleged takeover of companies belonging to a businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim, against the order of the court. Justice Okon Abang, in a ruling on an ex-parte motion, moved Victor Ogbonna, on behalf of Ibrahim and others, also directed the plaintiffs to commence committal proceedings against Director-General, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alexander Ayoola Okoh. The Judge held that it was lawful to grant the committable proceeding for the defendants to know how they flouted the court order despite the undertaking by their counsel “not to take any step to undermine the res (subject matter).” He expressed doubt if Kuru, Okoh, and others, who, he said, had contributed to the economic development of the country, would allow such direct confrontation with the law. “They are persons that have contributed so much to the development of the country’s economy. I hope they will not, byte their action bring themselves to the direct confrontation with the law for nobody is above the law. “I hope the allegation made against them is just in the realm of the allegation. I hope it is not true based on the undertaking by their counsel,” the judge held. The companies are Nicon Investment Limited, Nicon Insurance Limited and Nigeria Reinsurance Corporation PLC, including Nicon Luxury Hotel. While the companies are 1st to 3rd plaintiffs respectively, Jimoh Ibrahim is the 4th plaintiff in the suit, in the ex-parte motion, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/760/2021, filed March 10. AMCON, BPE, Lamis Shehu Dikko, Dr Henry Uko Ationu, John Abuh Oyidih, Alexander Ayoola Okoh, Ahmed Dahiru Modibbo, Mela Audu Nunghe SAN, Olugbenga Falekulo, Olusegun Ilori, Mrs Yvonne Isichei, and Inspector General of Police are 1st to 12th contemnor defendants respectively. Ogbonna also sought the leave of court to join Ahmed Lawal Kuru, AMCON MD/CEO; Eberechukwu Uneze and Aminu Ismail, who are both executive directors of AMCON. Moving the motion, Ogbonna said the application was brought pursuant to Order 9, Rule 5 of the Federal High Court Civil Procedure Rules, 2019 and under the inherent powers of the court. He said the motion prayed for an order of the court granting leave to the plaintiffs/applicants to commence a committal proceeding by the issuance of (form 48 and 49) against the 1st defendant and the following natural persons being principal officers of the 1st defendant/contemnor. He also prayed for an order granting leave to the plaintiffs/applicants to commence a committal proceeding by the issuance of (form 48 and 49) against the 2nd defendants. The lawyer said AMCON is an artificial person whose affairs are coordinated by its principal officers who include Kuru, Uneze and Ismail. He said: “The above named natural persons sought to be served with Forms 48 of this Honourable Court, being principal officers of the 1st and 2nd defendants respectively, acted in contempt against the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court by taking certain actions to undermine the subject matter of the suit: Ogbonna, who said the application was necessary “for the preservation of the res pending the conclusion of the matter,” also said that it would be in the interest of justice that the application is granted. Justice Abang, in the ruling, held that though it was a legal impossibility to commence a committal proceeding against AMCON and BPE to commit them to correctional centre, the natural persons that take action on their behalf can be committed to prison. Abang said that despite the undertaking by the counsel to the defendants on August 16, 2021, before Justice Ahmed Mohammed and reaffirmed on March 9 before him to maintain the status quo, they were alleged to have acted in disobedience to the undertaking and the court order. He, therefore, ordered that the names of Kuru, Uneze and Ismail and their designations be endorsed on Forms 48 and 49 and serve on them to enable the court to hear from them. No date has been fixed for the commencement of the proceeding. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more