The Development Bank of Nigeria Plc (DBN) says despite the fact that gender equity is crucial to meeting development goals, reducing human suffering, and solving the biggest environmental problems, women across the world continue to suffer from gender inequality. This, the Bank explained includes child labour, forced marriages, gender-based violence, sexist policies, as well as barriers to participation in education and employment. The MD/CEO, Development Bank of Nigeria PLC, Mr Tony Okpanachi stated this in his opening address at the International Women’s Day celebration in Abuja on Wednesday. “While gender equity is crucial to meeting development goals, reducing human suffering, and solving our biggest environmental problems, women across the world continue to suffer from gender inequality, including child labour, forced marriages, gender-based violence, sexist policies, as well as barriers to participation in education and employment. These are realities that still stare at us today. “What are these biases you would ask! They include stereotypes like, Women Can’t Be Leaders; Women Are Irrational; Women Can’t Handle Huge Responsibilities and many more. That’s what they are; and for a society to make progress, we must challenge these preconceived notions. “As Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Development Bank of Nigeria Plc, I am privileged to lead a team that is deliberately breaking these biases. This is anchored on the appreciation and recognition of the strategic role women play as reliable builders of micro, small, and medium scale enterprises, a segment we are mandated to provide funding to,” said Okpanachi. He urged women to be aware of the unintended consequence of this new level of openness and embrace it with optimism instead of fear, while it is admirable that they are now challenging these biases, especially in the workplace. He said “according to an article written by an Author and Consultant, Stephen Frost on the Think Global People platform, it has been found that less than a third of employees can recognize bias when they see it. “This makes it harder for women to be hired and promoted, and more difficult for companies to level the playing field. Whether deliberate or unconscious, the bias makes it difficult for women to move ahead”. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of DBN asserted that “in Nigeria today, I dare say that women are still disadvantaged due to limited access to education, which has a ripple effect on earning power and economic opportunities, but we at DBN believe that: “It’s time to change the narrative for women. It’s time to ensure equal boardroom representation, gender balance in public decision-making bodies, and improved life chances for all women”. He noted that without gender equality today, a sustainable future, and an equal future remains beyond the reach of the people, and stressed: “I hope that the conversations we are going to have today will empower more women to achieve more”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more