The absence of the convicted kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans and his co-defendant, Joseph Emeka, on Monday stalled their trial over alleged kidnapping before an Ikeja Special Offences Court in Lagos State. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo had during the proceedings expressed displeasure over the absence of the defendants. She questioned one of the warders from the Kirikiri Maximum Correctional Centre who was present in court why the defendants were not brought to court for their trial. Responding to the question, the warder told the court that there was a mix-up on the date, adding that the date on their record for the appearance of the defendants was April 28. The judge was, however, not satisfied with the explanation. “Why are the defendants not in court? Somebody changed the date from March 28 to April 28. Do you know anything about this? I will follow up on this. “When there is no presence of defendants, we will have to adjourn the case because the defendants have to be properly represented. “Information reaching me just now is that a lawyer from Legal Aid Council of Nigeria just stepped out of the court immediately this case was mentioned. “In this case, the first defendant must represent himself if he cannot find any counsel to represent him,” Taiwo said. Also, the state prosecutor, Mr Yusuf Sule, told the court that the prosecution witness, Chief Vincent Obianodo, whom the defendants allegedly kidnapped, was ready to testify virtually. “We have amended charges and our witness is in court virtually but the defendants are not in court My Lord. The first defendant (Evans) is not represented,” he said. According to the prosecution, Evans and Emeka committed the offences on August 27, 2013, at Third Avenue in FESTAC Town, Lagos. Evans and his accomplice are alleged to have killed one Ngozi Chijioke and attempted to kidnap and kill Obianodo, Chairman of the Young Shall Grow Motors. The defendants pleaded not guilty to a seven-count charge of murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to commit kidnapping, attempt to kidnap and sale and transfer of firearms over the attempted kidnap of Obianodo. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details