Indigenes of Ibadan as well as residents and well-wishers on Friday morning started trooping in their hundreds to Mapo Hall, venue of the installation ceremony of Oba Olalekan Balogun as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. Well-meaning Nigerians, especially sons and daughters of Ibadanland, politicians and captains of industry across the world, including Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, also came to the occasion. Many associations in different attires were seen within and outside Mapo Hall premises venue of the event, dancing to the indigenous music of Ibadanland. No fewer than four Yoruba musicians, including an Ibadan based Fuji musician, have set their stages to entertain dignitaries and well-wishers at the occasion. Traditional drummers and native praise singers, with scores of well-wishers, were also sighted at different locations on Oje-Beere-Oja-Oba Road. Meanwhile, there was heavy deployment of security operatives to some strategic locations within the metropolis, especially the roads leading to Mapo Hall area of Ibadan. The presence of the police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Operation Bust and Amotekun personnel was felt in a bid to prevent breakdown of laws and orders. Also, officers of the Oyo State Fire Service were on ground at the venue to attend to fire incident in case it occurs. Major roads leading to Mapo Hall were blocked, while commuters had to trek some distances to get to their destination and venue of the ceremony. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more