WITH his ill-advised but not totally unexpected invasion of Ukraine last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin has thrown the world into turmoil, inaugurating a new era of global uncertainty that will presumably last for as long as Russian troops remain in Ukraine. Despite his huffing and puffing, military and diplomatic experts had continued to rule out a full-scale Russian invasion, deeming it a bridge too far for even a notoriously unpredictable Putin. The invasion proves that the Russian strongman will go to any length to realise his dream of restoring the glamour and prestige that he believes Russia gave up when the Soviet Union collapsed as the Cold War ended and the United States assumed global supremacy in the last decade of the 20th century. While Putin is not wrong about Russia’s loss of prestige and global respect, it is his interpretation of how the collapse came about and, consequently, how to go about recapturing it, that has put Russia’s neighbours on their toes. For the Russian leader, the road to the glories of yore lies through territorial aggrandisement, meaning the invasion and conquest of places that, in Putin’s imagination, if not in reality, used to be part of Mother Russia. It never seems to have occurred to Mr. Putin that other countries may have their own ideas about political independence and cultural sovereignty. This is the unfortunate background to the invasion of neighbouring Ukraine, with many being rightly fearful that success there will only give Putin the confidence to go after the Baltic states and Poland. At his direction, Russia has already successfully intervened in Abkhazia and South Ossetia in 2008, and Crimea and Donbas in 2014 respectively. We join the rest of the democratic world in condemning Russian aggression in Ukraine. If Mr. Putin has unresolved territorial disputes with Ukraine, he knows better than to take the law into his own hands. His unleashing of more than 200,000 troops on a smaller neighbour smacks of bullying and goes against the emergent global consensus around negotiation and compromise.We draw comfort from the fact that various world leaders and corporate bodies have condemned the Russian aggression. The United States and the European Union have denounced the invasion and offered military and other logistical support to the Ukrainian forces. A raft of targeted economic sanctions is under discussion. Several European countries have banned Russian flights from entering their airspace. UEFA has moved to relocate the venue of the 2022 Champions League final scheduled for May 28 from St. Petersburg to the Stade de France in Paris. More condemnation and severance of economic ties will send a strong message to Putin and unite the world around a common, just cause. There are nearly 5,000 Nigerians currently living in Ukraine. The Federal Government should make good its word to ensure their safety or, failing that, ensure their airlift. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.