Air Peace airline has received its fourth International Air Transport Association Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) certification, which signifies that the carrier was successful in the globally recognized and rigorous safety audit. This is just sat the governor-elect of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo has lauded Air Peace for plans to begin operations into London, Houston, Mumbai and Guangzhou. “It is amazing that this airline which began operations just seven years ago already operates 20 domestic routes and has been flying into Johannesburg and Dubai. “Air Peace, West Africa’s largest carrier and the fastest growing in the region, has become a great ambassador of not just Anambra State but the whole Nigerian federation”. Soludo thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, and his counterpart in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, for “their stupendous assistance to Air Peace”. Speaking on the airline’s commencement of flights to Niamey, Soludo praised the Nigerian diplomatic mission in Niamey, especially the deputy ambassador, Hajia Aisha Kabiru, for going beyond the call of duty to ensure smooth flight operations between Nigeria and the Niger Republic. The governor-elect also recalled how the Air Peace chairman brought home free of charge hundreds of Nigerian citizens stranded in South Africa in the midst of the xenophobic attacks which engulfed the country in 2019, saying: “Allen Onyema rescued these traumatized citizens regardless of their ethnicity, creed and gender”, stated Soludo. Equally, the immediate past governor of the state, Willie Obiano has described the airline’s commencement of three weekly flights into Niamey, Niger Republic, as a historic and decisive step in the economic integration of the African region. Meanwhile, the airline has scaled the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Safety Audit certification. Declaring this, the spokesperson of the airline, Stanley Olisa, said the new certification had once again, exemplified the airline’s commitment to global best practices in aviation safety. His words: “Air Peace is unwaveringly committed to observing the highest standards of safety in its operations and the consecutive success in the IOSA audits is a testament to this commitment. For us, safety comes first for both our passengers and staff. We cannot compromise on this”. He expressed the airline’s resolve to continue to comply with best safety standards and promised more seamless connectivity, strategic route expansion to meet the flying public’s travel needs, and consistent fleet modernisation. Olisa commended IATA for continuously ensuring that stakeholders in the aviation sector worldwide, comply with established safety standards while noting that safety is at the heart of the industry. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details