IN what appears to be technical retirement, 33-year-old Blessing Okagbare, one of Nigeria’s most renowned athletes for over a decade now, was dealt a deadly blow recently when the Athletic Integrity Unit (AIU) banned her for 10 years after an exhaustive tribunal proceeding pronouncing her guilty of violation of anti-doping rules (ADR) under the World Athletics. In a statement released by the AIU, the body said: “The Disciplinary Tribunal has banned Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare for a total of 10 years, five years for the presence and use of multiple prohibited substances and five years for her refusal to co-operate with the AIU’s investigation into her case.” The AIU further said: “We welcome the decision of the Disciplinary Tribunal; a ban of 10 years is a strong message against intentional and coordinated attempts to cheat at the very highest level of our sport.” This opinion will address strictly on a legal basis the two reasons the respondent was banned for 10 years, which are usage of prohibited drugs and inability to cooperate with the World Athletics during investigation period. The two-count charge is measured on five years each. First of all, there are some lines of admissible evidence from the arguments of the World Athletics regarding the discovery of the use of prohibited substances by Miss Okagbare after careful forensic medical examination. For instance, after cautious medical examination of the samples provided from the athlete’s body, a hormone growth (HGH AAF) was discovered in her sample provided before a recombinant ethropoietin (EPO 14) was later discovered in her body and again which is a prohibited substance. Okagbare never denied that these substances were discovered from her throughout the proceeding of the tribunal. Rather, she only said that HGH might have been found in her body because of the following: thyroid medication, consumption of contaminated foods, treatment of fever, injection of pills, use of a prenatal vitamin, changes in menstrual cycle and severe bleeding. Meanwhile, article 2.2.1 of the World Anti-doping Code which is what guides the usage of drugs by international athletes is expressly clear on the use of drugs. The article 2.1.2 states expressly: “It is the athlete’s personal duty to ensure that no Prohibited Substance enters their bodies and that no Prohibited Method is used.” In consideration of this section, 2.2.1, Okagbare is not on the side of the law here. Therefore, a penalty is justified. On the second count charge, the World Athletics, represented by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU), asserted that the respondent failed to cooperate in majority parts of the investigation process which would have led to the discovery of evidence of further anti-doping rule violations by her and at least one other person. The body further bemoaned the refusal of the athlete to submit her phone for imaging and objection to provide the identity of an athlete she was believed to have reasonable information about regarding the possession of a prohibitive drug. The Athletics Integrity Unit relied on several documentary evidence from the FBI about this which indirectly pointed fingers at Miss Okagbare. All of this is in contravention of the anti-doping rule of 5.7.3 and 5.7.7. Therefore, again, a penalty is justified for not cooperating with the investigation of the AIU. On a personal opinion from the perspective of law, some areas of the judgment can however be looked at on appeal for reconsideration at the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS). While the World Athletics, formerly the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) represented by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) presented a very good case leading to the 10-year ban of Okagbare, the proof by the AIU that she had reasonable information about a potential athlete using prohibited drugs and refused to divulge his / her identity is strictly based on circumstantial evidence which is not a sufficient ground to easily conclude that she truly had such information and this is part of the fundamental basis of her 10-year ban. Secondly, while Okagbare did not challenge the jurisdiction or legality of the disciplinary panel led by an arbitrator at the beginning of the case, it is important to assess its validity. The disciplinary panel was constituted by the World Athletics which is also an interested party in the case. This brings the issue of independence and perceived fairness of the disciplinary panel in to the equation as you cannot be a judge in your own case. Objections can be premised on these aspects at the CAS if the case is appealed.  Olajide writes in from the Faculty of Law, Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile – Ife, Nigeria. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team