As the popular saying goes, ‘the way you dress is the way you are addressed,’ hence, “in this present world placing a premium on individuals and corporate value on appearances, you need to mind what you daily wear to be relevant in the scheme of things.” These are the words of a Nigerian internationally acclaimed celebrity fashion stylist, John J. Angel, who encouraged Nigerians and other fashion enthusiasts to put a value on themselves so their presence commands the needed respect wherever they find themselves. He said, “building a world-class fashion brand, to having a feel of being the highest-paid in Nigeria, is what makes one feel good, but it is a task that requires hard work and commitment amid competition which has crippled the relevance of practitioners who can’t evolve with time owing to changing demands of celebrities and general patrons in the industry.” John J. Angel, the head of the De Angelic Touch Stylist, an outfit that caters to the fashion and style needs of celebrities and the generality of Nigerian fashion enthusiasts, is a professional who has carved a niche for himself in the fashion, life and style industry, as his works have been applauded by both the Nigerian and foreign artistes. He said part of the encouragement for him on the job is adding value to his clients and the good feedback he gets from individuals and organisations rewarding his efforts. He pointed at some of his awards including the Pan African Awards 2018; October 1 Stylist of the Year 2018; and Most Sought After Stylist 2019, which he said are the motivation and encouragement for him to do more. As a graduate of Marketing from the Lagos State University, John J. Angel, who said he has always developed a passion for creative works, knowing he has a good dress sense, said, he desired to make a living and statement out of the industry, and that made him go into full training to become an authority on the job he likes to do. According to him, as a professional stylist, his job is to review the style and personality of a particular person as a fashion consultant, assess the events his client plans to attend, then recommend the outfit pattern that suits the person’s status. This, he said, in the past years of his profession, he had passionately handled, with a record of work done for many Nigerian and foreign celebrities among whom are Wizkid, Davido, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Emoney, Patoranking, Don Jazzy, Rema, Ruga, Mr Eazi and Mayourku. Others are, Flavour, Falz, Reekado Bank, Bella shmurda, Reminisce, Lax, Buju, RMD, Zlatan Dbanj, Naira Marley and a host of others, whom John J. Angel, said are some of the top Nigerian celebrities on his label, adding that, “I have also worked with some of the well-known foreign artistes too, the likes of Awilo Logomba Sakodie, Stonebwoy, Diamond and Falipupa.” He said his irresistible dress sense with a touch of excellence which is his known signature in the industry is why celebrities at home and abroad are glued to his works, saying, besides the many grounds already covered, in future, he still hopes to work with John Legend, Drake and other top artistes. John J. Angel, popularly known with his label, DeAngelicTouchStylist, said he began his styling career on a professional scale in 2009, but he had eaelier made a noticeable presence in the entertainment as a makeup artist, when the styling industry was not booming as it is today. He advised the Nigerian youth, especially the creative ones who want to cut their teeth in the entertainment industry to carve a niche for themselves and develop a particular focus on a specific area of specialisation and not just be a jack of all trades and get trained to know their jobs so well, so they can become sought after professionals. How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team