Qatar Airways’Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft has made into inaugural flight into the Porth Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa in River State amidst jubilation. The aircraft described as one of the most sophisticated in the fleet of the UAE airline touched down at the Port Harcourt International airport at 11.15 am was received with water cannons provided by the officials of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other elated dignitaries from the state. Leading the Rivers State indigenes was the deputy state governor, Dr Mrs Ipalibo Harry Banigo, Chairman of the Rivers State Traditional Council, His Highness, King Daudesan Douglas-Jaja, other traditional rulers and members of the state house of assembly. Speaking at the event, Qatar Airways Vice President, Africa, Hendrik du Preez said the commencement of operations into the Port Harcourt route will connect the state to Hamid International airport, the world’s best airport. His words: “Port Harcourt is an important economic hub for Nigeria and we hope these new flights, linking it to the world’s financial and petrochemical capitals, will contribute to its ongoing success and pave the way for future growth. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We anticipate good reciprocal demand between Port Harcourt and destinations in the USA and UK. According to du Preez, the launch of the Port Harcourt flight has now made it four key routes across the country it flies into with the others being Abuja, Lagos and Kano which witnessed its inaugural flight to Kano on Wednesday. Speaking on behalf of the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, his deputy described the coming of Qatar to Port Harcourt as auspicious at a time when she said the state government was making efforts to provide good road infrastructures to the citizens of the state to make commerce flow and subsequently help develop and implement the ease of doing business in the entire state. Ipalibo said the coming of Qatar to the state will further enhance development and boost the economy of Nigeria and attract foreign investments into the state and the country at large. Other dignitaries present at the occasion include; the Nigerian Ambassador to Qatar, Yakubu Abdullahi Ahmed, and that of Qatar to Nigeria. Dr Ali Ghanem Ak-Hajir. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Qatar Airways operates inaugural flight to Port Harcourt Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Qatar Airways operates inaugural flight to Port Harcourt ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.