An Okada rider, Wale Isaiah, has been sentenced to life imprisonment for defiling a 10-year-old girl by the Special Offences Court, sitting in Ikeja, Lagos State. This is the judgement of court presided over by Justice Abiola Soladoye. In her judgement, Justice Soladoye said the prosecution proved the essential ingredients of defilement beyond reasonable doubt and that the victim was consistent in her oral testimony which she said was corroborated by other evidence before the court and found the defendant guilty as charged. According to the judge the corroborative evidence showed there was penetration of the hymen, excessive laceration, perennial tear of the vagina, and that the injury to the vagina is such as seen in sexual assault. She added that the defendant is a sexual lunatic who took advantage of the poor victim who was on errand to supply sugar to her mother’s customer. Justice Soladoye sentenced the convict to life imprisonment and added that the convict name should be entered into the register of sexual offenders in Lagos State. The judge also advised parent and guardian that school age children should not be found on the streets as doing so violates the Child Rights of Lagos State, 2015. According to the state prosecutors, Mr. Olusola Soneye and Mrs. Olufunke Adedokun, the convict committed the offence on April 25, 2018 at Magboro along Badagry Expressway, Lagos. Five witnesses who presented evidence during trial are: the survivor, her father and a medical doctor while Wale along with his father testified in his defence. The survivor in her testimony, said that the defendant sexually assaulted her when she was on errands to sell sugar for her mother. She said he defiled her when the convict said he wanted to buy sugar and gave her N1000, but closed her mouth with a handkerchief, gave her a blow, dragged her into an uncompleted building and used a wrapper to tie her leg, then had unlawful sexual intercourse with her. Narrating her ordeal further, the survivor said she saw blood and the man told her to wait that he wanted to go and get pure water but he ran away only to be identified later by the girl and was subsequently taken to a community ruler’s presence who in turn reported to Morogbo police station. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers..  Okada rider bags life imprisonment for defiling minor  Okada rider bags life imprisonment for defiling minor  Okada rider bags life imprisonment for defiling minor Okada rider bags life imprisonment for defiling minor ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity