Dapo Ademola-Adesina, an architect turned politician in this interview by YEJIDE GBENGA-OGUNDARE, speaks about crisis resolution among political parties, increased representation at the National Assembly, his aspirations, among other issues.  What do you think of agitations for more representation at NASS? This is a very important and tricky question because we need to approach it from both sides of the coin because it has pros and cons. The agitation for more representation in the National Assembly is a good and welcome idea but it also comes with disadvantages as well. Let me elaborate on that. Having more representation in the National Assembly would definitely solve a lot of problems, including the problems of the Federal Constituency that I come from. But would it help in solving problems of bringing development and good governance to constituents? It’s a yes and no answer. If the representatives we have now are committed, truthful and dedicated in developing their constituencies, there would be no need for more representation because there’s no guarantee that more representation would bring about more development. It is just similar to the call for more states to be created when the some of the states we have now are tending towards bankruptcy with respect to paying salaries, building infrastructure and social amenities, just to mention a few. In essence, what I am saying is that more representation would cost government more money in the area of expenditure. We have to be true to ourselves sometimes and learn to eradicate and alleviate wasteful spending. I am an advocate of more representation but I still don’t know how we are going to fund it. If the Federal Government has a way of funding it without bringing about unnecessary hardship to citizens, then I am for it.  There’s crisis across political parties, why is it difficult for parties to find a way to resolve their crisis? The crisis experienced in the major political parties is all about politics and the control of their structures. As you are aware, there’s a general election by the corner, so there are a lot of alignments and re-alignments going on across political parties. Certain power blocs within the political parties are fighting for the control of the organs in a warm up to the 2023 elections. Most of the defections have to do with positioning towards 2023. Majority of the defectors are defecting based on personal and selfish reason and not in the interest of the party. As you can see, the ruling party has not been able to conduct a convention since last year and there shall be more implosions in the APC than in the PDP due to selfish interests. I hope one day, they would be able to choose the chairmanship and other members of their NWC but that seems to be an uphill task for them. In a build up to choosing our standard bearer there would certainly be some aggrieved aspirants but the PDP is a big family where we know how to settle our differences and move forward quickly to confront the Goliath in front of us.  As an aspirant in the last and the forthcoming election, how has local government benefitted from power rotation at the federal constituency level? As a loyal and dedicated PDP member, I consider the party above and before any personal ambition because if we don’t have a government ruled by the PDP at the same level, then all our efforts are just wasted. My involvement in politics at all levels is just to continue the legacy of my late dad; Arc (Professor) Shim Ademola Adesina and liberate my people from the injustice and unfair treatment given to them by the ruling party within my federal constituency. I have lived among them and I understand what they actually need. Most of them are farmers and artisans that need access to good roads and other basic infrastructure that can foster development. Osun State is not a mediocre state when it comes to politics and education. We are not pushovers because we are vast in knowledge and skills. We are also very well endowed with natural resources and able businessmen, professors and various professionals who can drive the necessary development into the state in an effort to increase our IGR.  By the way, my federal constituency consists of Boluwaduro, Ila and Ifedayo local governments; I have travelled across three of the local governments and I have not seen any physical development that is very outstanding in both Ila and Ifedayo.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details