The Oyo State chapter of Hoteliers Association of Nigeria, has called on Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to look into the issue of multiple taxes facing the hoteliers in the state, which is on the verge of putting some members of the association out of business. The members of the association, who could not bear the hardship caused by the multiple taxes on their services recently cried out to the state government as the environment is becoming unfriendly and unbearable for business sustainability. Speaking to journalists in Ibadan, the President, Oyo State Hoteliers Association, Chief  Ayodele Ogundele of Davies Hotel, Ibadan, explained that for the past two to three years and coupled with ravaging period and after COVID-19 pandemic, their businesses have faced too many untold hardship with many of its members still trying to regain business stability. “Since the economic downturn of business, we have been trying to overcome one challenge or the other and with the suffocating multiple taxes, it has been a serious matter to handle because as we tend to handle one, another surfaces. “After COVID-19, we have been battling with massive inflation, lack of staff, just as, most of us are presently understaffed and to worsen issue, we suffer perpetual lack of power supply- coupled with high cost of diesel, among others” “We are afraid that if this situation persists, it can force our members to close down their business, it will create employment gap that will add to the unsteady economic situation hampering growth of the state and country at large.” Chief Ogundele also underscored that multiple taxations and other outrageous charges like land use charges, tourism charges, trade and investment charges, fire services charges, environmental charges, emission tax, signage tax, etc., are undermining the practitioners in the industry, in the state. “We are on the verge of collapse and government needs to take us into consideration, so as to save the hospitality and tourism sector, being one of the highest employers of labour, revenue generators and capacity building sector.” In attendance at the conference were Vice President, Jospeh Emoabino (Bino), Dr Yemisi Ladi Badmus, Mrs  Anjorin Anna, Prince Kunle Adesanya (PRO), Hon. Jide Adeniran, Otunba Adedayo Latinwo, Kehinde Adeagbo, Ademola Alabi, Aiyede Sheyi, among others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Hoteliers’ association sends SOS  Hoteliers’ association sends SOS Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Hoteliers’ association sends SOS  Hoteliers’ association sends SOS ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details