My 5- year old daughter has dandruff on her head. This causes a lot of itching which sometimes leads to bleeding due to intense itching. Kindly advise me on what to do. Fatima (by SMS)  Medicated shampoo can treat dandruff in kids to a great extent. Just do not go with any shampoo; rather, consult a skincare specialist who will recommend an effective medicated shampoo based on your kid’s situation. Tell your kids to drink as much water they can. If they do not drink by themselves, give them water or juice in measured quantities to meet the daily need regularly. Keeping them hydrated can definitely reduce dandruff. Brush your kids’ hair properly before rinsing them with the medicated shampoo. Brushing will help eliminate the flakes to some extent, which in turn, will help better cleaning of the scalp after shampooing. Oil your kid’s scalp regularly or even on alternate days, as this will help keep the scalp moist, and thus make it dandruff-free. Kids are most susceptible to skin problems, and for the same reason, hair gels or creams should not be applied to kids’ hair as it may lead to dandruff or other hair related issues. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.