A kinsman of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, Mr Olisa Igbonwa who was rumoured to have been buried alive has surfaced in Anambra State. Igbonwa, an indigene of Alor, the hometown of Dr Ngige, in Idemili South Local Government Area of the State, was said to have taken a chieftaincy title as Ichie Ngene, a decision the community felt was not within his right, leading to a mock burial conducted on him by the elders of the community. Rumours have been flying that Igbonwa was in a casket taken around the community by the elders, and buried in a forest. But the Anambra State Police Command in a press release made available to Tribune Online in Awka, on Wednesday, said Igbonwa visited the command to institute a case against the elders of his community. The state police command’s spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga in the press release said: “The attention of Anambra State Police Command has been drawn to a trending video clip and online publication stating that one Chief Olisa Igbonwa was buried alive in Alor, Anambra State by the elders of Okebunoye village, Alor, Idemili South local government area of Anambra State. “The elders met and took a decision to bury and mourn Mr Igbonwa alive for taking ‘Ichie Ngene’ title by himself in the community. “The publication is not only false but also misleading. The Command wishes to state that Olisa Igbonwa is alive and was never buried alive as alleged in the publication.” Ikenga said Igbonwa visited the Command physically to make a formal complaint, saying that he received a chieftaincy title from HRM Igwe Alor but was threatened by one Mr Uzoma Igbonwa and others to renounce the chieftaincy title within 30days or he will face dare consequences. He said the Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng has ordered a discreet investigation into the matter and to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident in order to bring perpetrators to book. He said an investigation into the matter was still on. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.