Accord Party (AP) governorship candidate in the upcoming June 18, 2022, Ekiti State gubernatorial poll, Basorun Reuben Famuyibo (BRF), has said that he is in the race to become the next governor in order to make life more meaningful for every resident of the state. Famuyibo made this known at the weekend while receiving in audience a group of youths from the state capital, Ado-Ekiti, under the banner of Accord Youth Vanguard and led by Ibitoye Ayodeji Opeyemi and Barr Ajayi Julius, paid him a solidarity visit, assuring that he was coming to bring smiles to faces of all residents as he had seen how civil servants, teachers and students suffered in the state. This was just as he promised to clear a backlog of salary arrears owed to teachers and civil servants in the state and ensure prompt payment of salaries for them, among others. The AP guber candidate, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Olajide Omojolomoju, copy of which was made available to newsmen, also promised a massive infrastructural development of Ekiti State across board and the provision of enabling environment for small and medium scale enterprises to thrive in the state popularly referred to as Fountain of Knowledge. “We will start with the payment of the backlog of salary arrears and thereafter ensure prompt payment of salaries and emoluments for teachers especially, and all civil servants. “For the teachers, we will ensure that they get their due promotion as and when due, train and re-train them to meet with international best teaching and learning methods and practices, pay allowances for core subjects and rural posting and make available to the car and housing loans. “We will also ensure that we create a conducive working environment for our civil servants; provide free transportation to and from work and train and re-train them as well. Our government will also ensure that every Ekiti worker gets the ’13th-month salary.’ “For our students, we will ensure that school fees are reduced, so that many who are denied education due to high fees can return to school; restore electricity to our campuses, maintain existing infrastructures and provide new ones and ensure adequate accommodation in partnership with investors,” Famuyibo said. The businessman cum politician said market women, farmers and artisans would also be taken care of by his administration, just as he equally assured that adequate security would be provided for all and sundry. Pledging their support for his ambition, the youths promised to do everything within their powers to ensure that Otunba Famuyibo succeeded in his quest. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity