Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State has given judgment on a divorce suit brought before it by a man, Babatunde Ajani, against his wife, Basirat Ajani. Babatunde in his suit claimed that he and his wife were not compatible. According to him, Basirat was unruly and in the habit of threatening him. He explained that his mother married Basirat to him, but that rather than worship her mother, Basirat treated her with contempt. The plaintiff therefore pleaded with the court to stop their marriage. He further appealed for the custody of their three children and prayed the court to restrain her from coming to harass him in his home and workplace. Basirat  on her part stated that Babatunde was irresponsible. According to her, he was not a caring father and as such neglected their children’s welfare. She also said that the plaintiff did not know their children’s date of birth. The defendant explained that the plaintiff was in the habit of drinking, smoking and returning home at midnight. She stated that she moved out of his house three years ago and that he gave their three children feeding allowance only  twice after this. According to her, the first time he gave N200 and the second time, N500. Basirat prayed for the court not to handover their children to her husband because he did not have time for them. She stated that she once released the children to him after his pressure on her, but that he handed them over to his mother and later his sister, who maltreated them. Giving judgment, the court president, Mrs S.M Akintayo, observed that the plaintiff never denied smoking, drinking and returning home late. She stated that Babatunde would be a bad example to their children who could end up being delinquent. She added that the plaintiff in his testimony further showed he was not a caring father. Babatunde, according to her, preferred dumping their children with his relatives thus dodging his responsibility towards them as their father. Akintayo explained that the court had no other choice than to dissolve their union since both parties consented to it. Ruling, she pronounced their wedlock dissolved and handed custody of their three children to the defendant whom she stated was capable of taking good care of them. The plaintiff, she ordered should be granted access to their children every Saturday of each month, starting from the last Saturday of March. This she emphasised should hold at a neutral place. Babatunde was also instructed to give their children, N15,000 monthly as feeding allowance through the court, while both should be responsible for their clothing, education and medical bills. Both were advised to maintain peace. Babatunde giving his evidence said: “My lord, Basirat was as gentle as a lamb when my mother introduced her to me. She was convinced she was going to be a dutiful wife. “I yielded to my mother’s counsel because I have never had any course to doubt her judgment, but time later proved me wrong. “Basirat suddenly became a thorn in the flesh after she moved into my house. “She became uncontrollable and took to threatening me. “She turned against my family members, especially my mother whom she treated with disdain. This attitude of hers caused discord in our home and later a strain in our relationship. “She eventually moved out of my house three years ago with the pregnancy of our last child. “I give our children N1, 000 per week since she took them away from me. “My lord, I pray this court to dissolve our marriage and grant me custody of our three children,” the plaintiff pleaded. Basirat told the court, “My lord, if I knew my mother in-law was leading me to hell by asking me to marry her son, I would have declined. “My husband is irresponsible and a bad example to our children. “Babatunde spent his income on alcohol. He was never concerned about our children’s welfare. His day was made any time he drank himself to stupour. “He also smoked like chimney. We fought over these almost all the time. “My lord, my husband made matter worse by returning home late at night and waking up neighbours who  were already in bed. “I moved out of his house three years ago when he refused that I had rest of mind. “I left him while carrying our last child’s pregnancy, but he refused to check on me and the baby in the hospital after I put to bed. “He also refused to be responsible for the medical bill. It was his brother who paid the bill before the hospital authority agreed to discharge me. “I was the one paying the rent while we were together and also carried out some other duties on his behalf. “Babatunde doesn’t know our children’s date of birth and has failed to pay their school fees. “My lord, my husband gave our children money for food only twice since we left him and these were ridiculous amounts. “He once gave them N200 and at another time, N500. “I am solely responsible for our children’s education. He refused to give a dime towards this. “My lord, I agree that we go our different ways. But I entreat this honourable court to grant me custody of our children, because my husband obviously can’t take care of them. “He once took them away from me and handed them over to his mother and later his sister, who both maltreated them, “the defendant concluded. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95 per cent of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200, 000 barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell, to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rising. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable!” Elumelu urged Nigerians to be more vocal and demand accountability from government as the 2023 general election draw closer. He added that only leaders who can deliver on their mandates can change Nigeria’s trajectory. “Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development,” he said.   ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team