Workers under the aegis of Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) on Monday issued six month ultimatum to the management of National Assembly for payment of National Minimum Wage. The resolution was passed during the PASAN Congress held within the National Assembly complex, Abuja. Recall that Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, Barrister Ekpo Nta, had in a 2-page Circular dated 21st February, 2022 with Reference No: SWC/S/65/III/696 addressed to the Clerk of National Assembly, Architect Amos Ojo and other Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) titled: ‘Implementation of the National Minimum Wage of N30,000 per month – Reminder’, affirmed that the implementation of the new National Minimum Wage takes effect from 18th April, 2019 when it was assented to law by President Muhammadu Buhari. To this end, the NSIWC Chairman maintained that “all employers of labour are expected to implement with effect from 18th April 2019, the National Minimum Wage (NMW) of N30,000 per month subject to the provisions of Section 4 of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. “Accordingly, any Federal Government Agency that is yet to implement the National Minimum Wage and the consequential adjustments arising therefrom in line with NSIWC circulars that were issued on 14th November 2019, should clear with the Commission if they have problems with the implementation.” He also stressed that the Commission will monitor the implementation and compliance in line with the provisions of Section 2 of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. Thereafter, sanctions, as provided in Sections 13, 14 and 15, will apply where necessary. In the same vein, the Association also demanded for full implementation of the Condition of Service not later than May 2022. The Association however threatened to shut down the National Assembly if the management fails to honour the resolution. The workers during the meeting also issued 7-day ultimatum for the remittance of all outstanding taxes deducted from the National Assembly staff to Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). The workers had during the meeting expressed grave concern over the failure of the National Assembly management for warehousing the tax accruing from their monthly salaries, thereby making it difficult for staff to obtain Tax Clearance. To this end, the Association during the Congress, resolved to set up a 3-member Committee to investigate the activities of National Assembly management for this amorality. It would be recalled that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed had in a letter with Reference No:
BD/2000/EXP/5.597/1 dated 26th June, 2020 addressed to the Clerk of the National Assembly, maintained that the new national minimum wage should be paid from the statutory allocation to the National Assembly. “I acknowledged receipt of your letter Reference No: NASS/CNA/92/Vol.6/455 dated 12th February, 2020 on the above subject requesting my
clarification and status of implementation of the minimum wage with regards to other arms of government. “As you are aware, the National Minimum Wage Act passed by the National Assembly and assented to by Mr. President binds all Employers to pay the prescribed minimum wage of N30,000. “The National Assembly, being a Statutory Agency with financial autonomy, is expected to implement the minimum wage from its statutory allocations, which are released to it monthly,” the Minister stated in the letter. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details