President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the reconstitution of the Board of the National Institute for Labour Studies following the expiration of the tenure of the former one. The reconstituted Council is made up of Prince Sam Okpako Onokohwomo (Kowho) (Chairman); Brigadier General Umar Gital Yusuf (Member), representing the Nigerian Army; Mrs Omoabie Udeme Akpan (Member), representing the Ministry of Labour and Employment; CP Falaye S. Olaleye (Member), representing the Nigeria Police Force, and Ambassador Obinna Chukwuemeka Agbugba (Member), representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Others are Mr Umaru Ahmadu (Member), representing Service Strategy and Policy Office; Comrade Salamatu Aliyu (Member), representing the Nigeria Labour Congress; Comrade Babatunde Goke Olatunji (Member), representing the Nigeria Labour Congress; Mr Femi Mokikan (Member), representing the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association; Mr Adeniyi Ologun (Member), representing the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association; Comrade Nasir Fagge (Member), representing Nigerian Universities, and Comrade Issa Aremu (Member), the Director of National Institute for Labour Studies. According to a statement issued by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media and Publicity) on Thursday, the council will be inaugurated by the Supervising Minister of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) and Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr Festus Keyamo, on a date to be communicated to all appointees. Their appointment is for a period of four years. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team