Ayo Ademiluyi, Counsel to the family of the late 22-year-old lady, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, has demanded the conduct of autopsy on the deceased. The 22-year-old was reportedly killed inside a Bus Rapid Transit vehicle on her way from the Lekki area of the State recently. The lawyer made this demand known to the Lagos lawmakers during a protest to the Lagos State House of Assembly on Tuesday. He asked the Lagos State government to direct the Chief Pathologist of the state to also conduct coroner inquest on her. As part of his demands, Ademiluyi called for the arrest of the Directors of Lagos Bus Service Limited. The counsel explained that the ingredient of the arrest of the BRT driver has shown that they have criminal culpability in this scenario as provided in law as Corporate Criminal Liability. The lawyer stated that it is important the institutions of the state are investigated even as it is expected that the state ensures the safety of lives and property of the people. “We demand the autopsy by the Chief Pathology of Lagos state and also the coroner’s inquest. “We want arrest of the Directors of the Lagos Bus Services Limited. “By law, there is what we called Corporate Criminal Liability. Once the ingredients of the arrest of the BRT driver has shown is that they have criminal culpability in this scenario. “And it is important that the institutions of the state are investigated properly. Now, Lagos state government have also claimed that the bus is privatized under a franchise agreement. “But, we are all scholars of law that where you have a franchise agreement there are dual responsibilities. “Under chapter of the constitution, the state government is mandated to ensure the safety of lives and property. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “So, if the property of Lagos State government and its franchisees are under risk are suspended all over Lagos, what about the lives of ordinary Lagosians? Are they saying those lives be swept away by Atlantic Ocean. No. “There are other elements in that bus by the virtue of the video she sent. Those people should be equally arrested,” he said. Meanwhile, the Lagos State House of Assembly promised that the legislative arm of the State Government must ensure that justice is done in the case of the alleged murder of Bamise Ayanwole. The Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, who said he and his colleagues were very concerned about the incident, sympathised with the family and friends of the victim. While urging Nigerians not to preempt the police which is investigating the case, he said the House would continue to follow up to ensure justice is served appropriately. “The erroneous belief that it would be swept under the carpet is unnecessary. The driver has been arrested and is in custody. “We are watching and must ensure justice is done on the case. The governor has spoken about it and I just want to appeal that we work together to get justice. “We will do everything to make sure that justice is served. Justice must be served. And everybody in Lagos must be protected,” he told the protesters. Earlier during plenary, the Speaker urged Nigeria, its citizens and leaders to use the opportunity of the International Women’s Day to address whatever is lacking in the push for equity for women. Commending women for their resilience and importance, Obasa, however, expressed sadness that the women have become victims of heinous crimes. “As a government, we must look inward to see the areas that are beneficial to the women. Women have become victims of violence and other crimes. What have we done for the emancipation of our women? How much of our women have we lost during child birth? “We must encourage our women to be successful and live better,” he said. He charged all the committees of the House to work for the benefit of women in the state. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more