Life is not designed for us to live in isolation.  We need people and people need us and this is especially critical in leadership. Effective leadership always involves the operation of an effective team. “Great things are rarely achieved by just one person. Usually, they are accomplished by a group of people, and when everyone is committed to the overall goal, teams move faster, are more innovative and more successful. Successful teamwork is essential for anyone attempting complete projects successfully.” Tameday.com A team is a number of people associated in a joint venture working harmoniously towards the corporate good by the individual contribution of their specialized input. “Teamwork is the ability to work together toward a common vision. The ability to direct individual accomplishments toward organizational objectives. It is the fuel that allows common people to attain uncommon results.” Andrew Carnegie  Characteristics of an effective team: “Can two walk together, except they be agreed?” Amos 3:3. “Individual commitment to a group effort—that is what makes a team work, a company work, a society work, a civilisationwork.” Vince Lombardi “What we have is one body with many parts, each its proper size and in its proper place. No part is important on its own.” 1 Corinthians 12:20 Message. “Synergy is what happens when one plus one equals ten or a hundred or even a thousand! It’s the profound result when two or more respectful human beings determine to go beyond their preconceived ideas to meet a great challenge.” Stephen Covey “It’s better to have a partner than go it alone. Share the work, share the wealth. And if one falls down, the other helps, But if there’s no one to help, tough!” Ecclesiastics 4:9-10 Message.  TO BE CONTINUED FOR ENQUIRIES AND COMMENTS PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO Charismokola@yahoo.com  Two is better than one Part 2 Last time we began looking at the issue of teams, working in partnership with others. Life is not designed for us to live in isolation. “There is no such thing as a self-made man. You will reach your goals only with the help of others.” George Shinn We need people and people need us and this is especially critical in leadership. Effective leadership always involves the operation of an effective team. A team is a number of people associated in a joint venture working harmoniously towards the corporate good by the individual contribution of their specialized input. We also saw the characteristics of an effective team. Today we continue. “Teamwork is the ability to work together toward a common vision. The ability to direct individual accomplishments toward organizational objectives. It is the fuel that allows common people to attain uncommon results.” Andrew Carnegie The leader is a very critical factor in the successful operation of any team. “Ultimately, leadership is not about glorious crowning acts. It’s about keeping your team focused on a goal and motivated to do their best to achieve it, especially when the stakes are high and the consequences really matter. It is about laying the groundwork for others’ success, and then standing back and letting them shine.” Chris Hadfield “Remember, teamwork begins by building trust. And the only way to do that is to overcome our need for invulnerability.”Patrick Lencioni Teams, if well run, will produce a multiplier effect on the output of the team hence teams are needed in virtually every sector of life. Next time we will look at some areas where teams are needed. TO BE CONTINUED FOR ENQUIRIES AND COMMENTS PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO charismokola@yahoo.com  Two is better than one Part 3 We have been looking at the issue of working together with people in teams. Last time we saw that the characteristics of an effective team and we saw that there is need for teams in virtually every sector of life. We cannot go too far alone. “Anyone who imagines they can work alone winds up surrounded by nothing but rivals, without companions. The fact is, no one ascends alone.”  Lance Armstrong Today we will look at some of the areas where we need teams. Marriage. “Now the Lord God said, It is not good (sufficient, satisfactory) that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper meet (suitable, adapted, complementary) for him.” Genesis 2:18 Amplified. Business. “It’s better to have a partner than go it alone. Share the work, share the wealth. And if one falls down, the other helps, But if there’s no one to help, tough!” Ecclesiastics 4:9-10 Message. Church. “Think of it this way. If the whole body were just an eyeball, how could it hear sounds? And if the whole body were just an ear, how could it smell different fragrances? But God has carefully designed each member and placed it in the body to function as he desires. A diversity is required, for if the body consisted of one single part, there wouldn’t be a body at all! So now we see that there are many differing parts and functions, but one body.” 1 Corinthians 12:17-20 Passion.  To be effective in teams we need to: *Discover and develop our unique specialization. *Partner with people who need our specialization. “Find a group of people who challenge and inspire you, spend a lot of time with them, and it will change your life.” Amy Poehler *Develop soft skills to relate with people who are not like us. “The people with whom you work reflect your own attitude. If you are suspicious, unfriendly and condescending, you will find these unlovely traits echoed all about you. But if you are on your best behavior, you will bring out the best in the persons with whom you are going to spend most of your working hours.” Beatrice Vincent *Realize on our own we are not sufficient but that with effective partnership we achieve more. Together each achieves more is the summary of an effective team.. As leaders of teams we need to harness, coordinate and maximize the input of our team and ensure a smooth operation for corporate and individual good. “No matter how brilliant your mind or strategy, if you’re playing a solo game, you’ll always lose out to a team.” Reid Hoffman CONCLUDED FOR ENQUIRIES AND COMMENTS PLEASE SEND EMAIL charismokola@yahoo.com YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more