Nigeria’s representative at the 2021 Mr. Global Pageant, Emmanuel Somto, set a national record by not just winning the Mr. Popularity Award at the world fiesta, he also became the first Nigerian to get to the Top 17 of the global men’s modelling championship. The ‘Grand Slam’ of universal male pageants peaked on March 15th in Maha Sarakham in Thailand, and Nigeria’s Emmanuel Somto’s costume called Ike Nke Obodo (Strength of a Nation) was adjudged as one of the Top 5 best National Costumes in the world. In addition, Nigeria’s representative also clinched a Top 5 position in the world in the Most Inspirational Videos category, thereby placing Nigeria and Somto among the highest in reckoning at the global fiesta. Speaking on his final placing at the competition, Emmanuel Somto told Saturday tribune that it was a dream coming to reality that he could achieve the feat. “This was a dream that only became a reality because of the genuine love and support Nigerians showed me from all over the world”, he noted. Speaking further, he said: “I worked so hard for this opportunity and this chance to be a good representation of my country and I am so proud of myself and what I was able to achieve in this competition namely: Nigeria Placing Top 17 for the very first time since the inception of the pageant; bagging the Mr. Popularity Award (all thanks to every single of you who voted); Top 5 Most Inspirational Videos and Top 5 Best National Costumes.” According to him, the competition was a surreal and “such a great learning experience and I can’t wait to see what the future holds for me.” He pleaded for more support by Nigerians as he returns to Nigeria in the near future and continues in his humanitarian work and sundry personal businesses. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team