The Federal High Court in Abuja on Friday postponed till April 6, its judgment on the suit filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seeking to declare the seat of the Cross River State governor, Professor Ben Ayade, and his deputy, Ivara Esu, vacant. The PDP filed the suit following the defection of the duo to the All Progressive Congress (APC). Justice Taiwo Taiwo, who initially fixed Friday to decide on the case, has now postponed the judgement in the suit till April 6. Although the court did not adduce any reason why it postponed the verdict, it notified the parties about the new date through the cause list. Justice Taiwo had in a judgment he delivered on Monday sacked 20 lawmakers from Cross River following their defection from the PDP to the APC. The affected lawmakers comprised two members of the House federal lawmakers and 18 members of the Cross River State House of Assembly. In its prayers, the PDP had asked the court to sack both Ayade and Esu, contending that the duo, having abandoned the political party that sponsored their re-election, ought to vacate their respective offices. It also among others sought a declaration that votes at the election and other elections were won by political parties, and not the candidate or the candidates sponsored at the election by the political parties. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Cross River gov  Cross River gov Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Cross River gov  Cross River gov ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details