GOVERNOR of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, will today declare open the 12th triennial congress of the Oyo State council of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria (ADS), which is scheduled to take place, until Sunday, at the state headquarters of the organisation located at Obafemi Awolowo Road (formerly Liberty Road), Ibadan. At a press conference held on Thursday to herald the congress, the state chairman of the organisation, Alhaji Abdul-Azeez Ladejo, said other eminent personalities from across the country, including traditional rulers, would be present at the opening ceremony. According to Ladejo, the theme of this year’s congress ‘Politics and Health: The Islamic Perspectives’ and other salient national issues will be treated by erudite scholars in accordance with the Qur’an and Hadith. He said: “The activities will commence with a royal visit to the new Olubadan and we shall also visit the Chief Imam of Ibadan and the Aare Musulumi on Thursday, 10 March. “Lectures and awards will be given to all those who have performed well within and outside the society in appreciation of their good deeds to Islam and the society generally.” Ladejo then conveyed ADS’s commendation of Governor Makinde’s performance since the inception of his administration in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Makinde opens Ansar-Ud-Deen  Makinde opens Ansar-Ud-Deen Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Makinde opens Ansar-Ud-Deen  Makinde opens Ansar-Ud-Deen ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more