Nigeria’s next president must be someone who thinks outside the box and innovatively solves challenges that would manifest as problems while he steers the affairs of state, presidential aspirant and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal has said. In addition to this critically needed quality, was also the need for the President to be exposed to the various interests that define Nigeria, which would make the presidential material pan Nigerian. The Sokoto State Aminu Tambuwal said this at the forum of former Deputy governors in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) meeting which lasted from Thursday Night to the early hours of Friday. The former Speaker of the House of Representatives said the Federal Government, currently led by the All Progressive Congress (APC), by President Muhammadu Buhari has polarised Nigerians along all possible fault lines which called for urgent Pan Nigeria leadership. Tambuwal who was accompanied by former Sokoto State governor Attahiru Bafarawa and former Deputy governor Muktar Shagari said that not in the race based on ethnic considerations but because he has a track record that sets him above other aspirants. He pointed out that the complexity of the House of Representatives and his ability to manage it as an asset that espoused his Pan Nigerian with a broad-minded vision beyond primordial and ethnic sentiments. His words: “Am coming for the journey on my personal merit, on my credit and my personal credentials. As the Speaker of the House of Reps, I presided over one of the most stable and very interesting houses. “From the beginning of this democracy till today, I can beat my chest that the House I presided over was the House of Representatives of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria where issues were debated, devoid of sentiments but based on pan Nigerian perception. “Back in Sokoto, my records are there to speak for me in terms transformation of the state, infrastructure, education, health indices, bringing back out of school children, physical responsibility and accountability, ease of doing business and such other indices. “I believe that I have the right temperament, temperament is key going forward in running the affairs of Nigeria. The situation of this country calls for competent leadership calls for experienced hands and energy.” Tambuwal said the next election was about rewriting the history of the country and repositioning it on a growing pathway and not for compensation of any act of loyalty. “This is a time that Nigerians must not experiment with someone who does not understand democratic governance. “It is important that we are doing this exercise of selecting who is going to be the standard flag bearer of our party, we must deliberately seek out someone that understands this country, someone who has been tested in democratic governance, appreciating how to run a federal government. “We cannot afford to have another president that will be more in the villa without connecting with the people, engaging the people and finding local solutions to local problems.” The presidential aspirant said the party must not sacrifice competence for zoning: “This is a time that we must all be wise, that we must reduce as much as possible the quantum of sentiments that we have in our thought process. This is a time that requires a lot of sober reflection and patriotism. “We need a higher dosage of patriotism and pan Nigerianness for us to deemphasize those issues that divide us. We must all shield our swords and be talking about Nigeria, its unity, its stability, its forwardness. “The President, coming from your state, coming from your home, coming from your village may not make any meaning as long as he lacks the competence, the capacity and basic understanding of fairness, equity, inclusivity in leadership. “It is not where the president comes from that should matter this time, what should matter is: where can we find that Nigerian that can do the job. Where can we find that physician, that medical doctor that can prescribe and provide the requisite prescription and heal the ailment that is afflicting the patient? Who is that pilot that can pilot the aircraft to have a safe landing? Who is that captain that can captain the ship and bring it to safety, no matter wherever he is coming from.” The leader of the group and Chief of Staff to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mike Ogiadome said that Tambuwal has always distinguished himself as an outstanding leader who has the capacity to transform the country. He assured that the group will work to ensure that his dream as the number citizen of the country come 2023 comes to fruition. The representatives of the six zones Okechukwu Itanyi for (South East), Patrick Ekpotu (South-South) Solomon Ewuga for (North Central) James Magaji (North West), Amb. Oluwate Omolade (South West) and Yoriyo Lazarus (North East) on behalf of the other 100 members extolled the virtues of the aspirants and assured him that the country has a brighter future with someone of his pedigree on the driving seat. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Next president must  Next president must Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Next president must  Next president must ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details