Operatives of the Delta Police Command have arrested a 34-year-old computer operator and staff of Nana Primary School, Warri, Delta State, Precious Oki, for stealing seven out of 15 computers in his care. He was arrested upon receipt of the theft by detectives from ‘A’ Division of the Warri Area Command, Nigeria Police Force. According to the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Delta Police Command, DSP Bright Edafe, the 15 Zinox computers were supplied to the school by the Delta State government for the use of pupils. “The detectives, after a painstaking investigation, on 6/3/2022, arrested the principal suspect, named Oki Precious ‘m’ age 34yrs. “Investigation later revealed that the suspect is the computer operator working in the school and employed by the parent-teachers association (PTA) of the school. “The suspect led the police to his house where seven computers were recovered. The case has been charged to court,” he noted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Police arrest 34-yr-old primary  Police arrest 34-yr-old primary  Police arrest 34-yr-old primary  Police arrest 34-yr-old primary [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more