Minister of Environment, Sharon Ikeazor, has said that the Nigerian Energy Calculator (NECAL) would serve as an evidence-based tool for the country to plan its strategies for climate change. The minister said this at the launch of the second edition of the Nigeria Energy Calculator (NECAL) 2050, in Abuja. “I am more elated knowing that the completion of this policy tool could not have come at a better time than now.” She said NECAL was one of the tools used and informed the country’s Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) and its Sustainable Energy for All Action Agenda (Vision 2030). Ikeazor noted that the development and adaptation of the tool to the Nigerian environment was led by the Energy Commission of Nigeria and the resulting Nigerian Energy Calculator. He words: “Towards this end, the ministry, as the national coordinating body of climate activities will leverage on this tool for policy and decision making for the implementation of Nigeria’s long-term strategy for climate change under the Paris Agreement, as well as identify realistic solutions towards supporting the implementation of Nigeria’s National Determined Contributions (NDCs). She said she looked forward to the utilisation of this policy tool to address and support the development of Nigeria’s long-term low-emissions towards meeting the Net Zero commitment by 2060. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details