The Speaker Imo State House of Assembly, Hon Kennedy Ibeh has called on the youth to shun all social vices and other activities inimical to the existence of the youth of the nation. Ibeh made the call during a meeting with the Deputy Chief Controller of Nigerian Customs, Federal Operations Zone ‘C’ Mr Opakanmi Sunday at the Sam Mbakwe International Airport. He said that the interaction between the duo was aimed at finding possible ways of collaborative effort in ensuring that youths shun acts inimical to their personal growth and societal development. The speaker, therefore, assured to continue to engage the youths until a stable society is achieved. In his swift reaction, the Deputy Chief Controller of Nigerian Customs, Federal Operations Zone ‘C’, Mr Opakanmi Sunday assured the speaker of his willingness to assist in any possible ways to ensure not only the growth of Imo and South-East but the entire nation. He said; “I’m committed to the growth of the society, we shall collaborate and ensure that the society is sanitised, it’s a collective effort, but we shall get there.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Imo speaker wants youths  Imo speaker wants youths Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Imo speaker wants youths  Imo speaker wants youths ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details