Barely four days bandits suspected to be gang members of late Terwase Akwaza aka Gana killed a traditional ruler and ten mourners in Benue State another four people have been killed. It was reliably gathered that the bandits invaded the same council ward on Wednesday and unleashed terror on the villagers. Among those killed according to locals is a tax collector. The incident on Wednesday occurred Imande Kundi at Mbacher council ward in Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State. According to the local, “It is the same Mbacher council ward where they killed a traditional ruler and other eight people that were at a burial ceremony that the bandits attacked this afternoon and killed four people. Chairman of Katsina-Ala local government,  Alfred Atera confirmed the killing and said that the incident had been reported to the Area Commander and Divisional Police Officer in the town. He said, “It is true that some bandits this afternoon between 2:30 and 3:00 pm attacked the same area where they killed mourners on Saturday and killed four people. “One of the people they killed is a tax collector and I have reported the case to the Area Commander and the DPO Katsina-Ala.” Efforts to get the State Command spokesperson,  SP Catherine Anene were not successful as calls made to her phone rang out. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.