Youths under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged stakeholders and the national leadership of the party to come out and support the aspiration of Senator George Akume, to emerge as the party’s national chairman in the forthcoming National Congress. Speaking to journalists in Abuja, the APC zonal youth leader, Benue North-West Senatorial District Zone B, Comrade Asor Jeremiah, who led other youths, made the plea on Tuesday, during a press briefing. He stated that the chairmanship hopeful, courtesy of his work and contributions to the entrenchment of democracy since 1999 and has represented his zone in the National Assembly for three unbreakable times, which he led the crusade for a merger and played a strong role in ensuring the opposition APC took power from the ruling PDP in 2015 general election, in his capacity as the Minority Leader at the Senate, deserve the National Chairman of the party. The youth leader said Akume who is the current Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, is being accepted by the majority of APC faithful and needs support from all the party loyalists. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to Jeremiah; “He is a detribalised politician who has demonstrated huge capacity, wisdom and commitment to the unity and development of the party and Nigeria at large. “Akume contested and won the 1999 governorship race to rule Benue state in 1999 till 2007. He later contested for Senate seat to represent his zone and won in 2007, a position he held for three terms and was elevated to the office of the Senate Minority leader. “He also led the crusade for a merger and played a strong role in ensuring the opposition APC took power from the PDP in the 2015 general election. “With his experience, we believe Senator Akume has met all the requirements and has the experience to man the affairs of the ruling All Progressives Congress in the capacity of a National chairman, particularly at this time that the party needs a unifier, selfless, corruption-free and detribalised personality of his kind to take the party to the next level.” Jeremiah, thereafter, urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) strategic stakeholders to back Akume to clinch the party chairmanship in the forthcoming March 26, National Convention. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more