A gang of seven suspected members of a robbery gang some days ago hijacked a tanker fully loaded with 45000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, popularly known as petrol. The police in the state rescued the driver of the hijacked truck, Falana Abiodun, and his assistant, Fatai Opeyemi, from the armed robbers who held them hostage. Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad who were on a routine patrol of the Lekki – Epe Expressway last Thursday intercepted the armed robbers during the robbery operation. The RRS  said, “Men of Lagos Rapid Response Squad (RRS) in the early hours of Thursday rescued a tanker driver and his assistant from the captive of gun-wielding robbers on Lekki-Epe Expressway, while they also recovered three guns, 11 live cartridges and machetes from robber’s vehicle.” The police unit added that “Other items recovered from the robbers were: a tipper with the registration number: BDJ 271 XB, a chisel, backpack, hand gloves and a face mask. “The robbers, numbering about seven had around 1 a.m. used a blue colour tipper to block a truck loaded with 45,000 litres of premium motor spirit (PMS) at Berger Bridge inward Epe, Lagos. The fuel tanker was heading to Oyo State.” RRS also stated that “The four occupants of the tipper ordered the truck driver and his assistant out of the vehicle.” The unit also stated that “They drove away the 45,000-litre tanker while three other robbers who were hiding in the bush held hostage the truck driver and his assistant, identified as Falana Abiodun and Fatai Opeyemi, before leading them into the bush. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “They were emerging from the bush around 4:00 a.m. with their hostages when patrolling Rapid Response Squad (RRS) team saw them and gave them a chase.” According to the police, “The robbers abandoned their vehicle, guns and machetes before escaping into the bush.” The 45,000-litre tanker was later found empty through the assistance of NUPENG members in Epe. The Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi has directed the Commander, Rapid Response Squad (RRS), CSP Yinka Egbeyemi to transfer the case to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba for further investigations. CP Alabi further assured that all the suspects involved in the hijacking of the 45,000-litre tanker would be made to face justice. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details