Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Professor Kayode Adebowale says that Nigerians should invest in ending the tuberculosis scourge in the country by speaking very loudly about the infection now ranked after COVID-19 and above HIV as a cause of death from a single disease-causing germ globally. Prof Adebowale spoke at his investiture as the TB Champion for the university as part of activities by the Friends of Damien Foundation TB Club and Damien Foundation Genomics and Mycobacteria Research and Training Centre, University of Ibadan to mark the 2022 World TB day. He stated that TB is a disease of public health importance, given its devastating impacts on health and livelihood, and all age groups stand the risk of being infected, especially adults in their most productive years. Prof Adebowale quoted the World Health Organisation (WHO) saying that “globally, about 10 million people were infected and 1.5 million deaths reported in the year 2020. Over 4,100 people die from the disease and as many as 28,000 people fall ill daily, though TB is both preventable and curable.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The don, noting that Nigeria has made considerable progress in the prevention and cure of this global epidemic, said the University of Ibadan is no exception to championing the cause of eliminating TB, with the active presence of the Friends of Damien Foundation TB club in the institution. The vice-chancellor declared that the University’s health service is positioned to provide necessary diagnosis and care for those infected with TB promptly as well as the institution’s expertise for the global elimination of the disease. He added, “Based on the WHO campaign for this year’s World TB Day, the theme, “Invest to End TB. Save Lives,” is a call to urgently fight and end TB through the considerable and significant investment of the needed resources. “We all have our parts to play, and it will take concerted efforts of all and sundry to eventually rid our world of TB. Let’s take responsibility for each other’s well-being. Treatment is absolutely free at all DOTs centres nationwide, our Jaja clinic inclusive. We will definitely reach the desired milestone someday, hopefully very soon.” Earlier, Team lead for Damien Foundation Genomics and Mycobacteria Research and Training Centre, Professor Simeon Cadmus said UI being in the forefront of TB elimination is important, being the premier University. According to him, “it is also our belief that you have to be the champion as the VC of the premier university in Nigeria and in leading the vanguard against TB in Nigeria and hopefully globally.”
Part of activities to mark World TB Day by the Friends of Damien Foundation TB Club included social media posting on TB and a rally at the Ibadan Central Abattoir in Amosun village to create awareness on TB in animals and humans and how butchers can protect themselves from contracting the infection. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details