Foremost Nigerian Real Estate company, Evertop Realties Limited has unveiled Nigerian actors, Jeff Olajide Owolewa, popularly known as Tony Montana and Olyinka Solomon a.k.a ‘Ogo Mushin’ as brand ambassadors. The new ambassadors will join forces with Abidemi Kosoko’ who has been the face of the brand in recent years. According to the company, Mr Jeff is a distinctive indigenous actor and movie producer known for his outstanding roles in the Yoruba movie industry, while fast-rising actresss, Olayinka Solomon is renowned for her role in the movie, Omodara and has become one of the respected and sought-after on-screen characters since her invasion. Speaking at the unveiling, Managing Director Evertop Realties Limited, Mr Oluwaseun Joseph, said the choice of both thespians is based on their distinct reputation and character which align with the company’s values. “We are a trusted brand in this market and our choice of ambassadors matches what we stand for. We are sure that the amiable characters of these Nollywood stars will continue to enhance our brand equity and patronage. We are pleased to have them onboard and they will help complement the effort of Abidemi Kosoko who has been a good ambassador of the Evertop brand for years,” he said. Commenting on the partnership, Mr Jeff said: “Evertop is a household name in the Nigerian real estate market. They’ve built a name on selling choice properties across Nigeria for years. Being the face of this brand means I can vouch for them. And I assure anyone willing to buy land, house or seeking property advisory to contact Evertop Realties Limited. You won’t regret it.” On her part, Olayinka Solomon said buying properties from Evertop is safe and genuine. “Buying properties from Evertop guarantees you peace of mind. They are a certified company. So anyone who buys properties from them won’t face speculator challenges or have any issue with Certificate of ownership with the government. Their transactions are transparent, genuine and safe. And they offer all these at affordable prices,” she said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team