Graduates of the Marketing department (94 set) of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, have commenced the construction of a N80 million building for the institution. This was disclosed by the acting Rector of the school, Dr Adeoye Odedeji, on Thursday, during the foundation laying ceremony of the building tagged “Legacy Project”, adding that the building would comprise e-library; seminar hall; lecturers’ offices; supermarket among others. Odedeji said the donation by the former students would complement the state’s government effort to fund the educational sector. He explained that the polytechnic had taken the decision to lay emphasis on entrepreneurship programmes in order to encourage skill acquisition amongst the students. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The acting rector added that in line with the decision, the school would, in the near future begin issuance of dual certificates to its graduates – one on the course they studied while the other on the skills acquired. “Before, if a student is admitted for a programme in MAPOLY, he/she will graduate with the course of study but we are trying to change the narrative because we now lay emphasis on entrepreneurship. “In line with this, we have taken a decision that in the future, our students will be graduating with dual certificate; the first one in the course they studied as well as being certificated in a trade,” Odedeji said. The President of the set, Adeyanju Adelakun, said it became imperative to give back to the school, hence, the donation of the building, adding that the project is projected to be completed by December 2022. The project, which Adelakun said is 21st century compliant will cost the 94 Set s sum of N80m. “We wanted to give back to the school and we felt this has not been done by anybody before. And we said let’s be the first set to do this. I have confidence in my team,” Adelakun added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more