Citizens Awareness Against Corruption and Social Vices Initiative (CAACASVI), a civil society organisation, has warned of a looming nationwide protest against the inability of the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), led by its Group Managing Director (GMD) Mr.Mele Kyari, to make available Premium Motor Spirit, also known as fuel for consumption in Nigeria. The Executive Director of CAACASVI, Comrade Olumuyiwa Onlede, noted that the seven days ultimatum issued to the management of NNPC to make fuel readily available without long queue has elapsed, thus the CSO is left with no choice but to mobilise like-mind Civil Society Organisations and patriotic Nigerians across the country for a peaceful protest in selected states in the six geopolitical zones of the country. In a press statement signed by Comrade Onlede and made available to the media in Abuja, the protest was to demand that the president relieves key management staff of NNPC Limited of their appointment and bring in more competent hands to manage NNPC effectively and efficiently. He said arrangements for the protest are already in top gear as relevant civil society organisations and individuals who are interested in salvaging the current fuel situation are ready to join the protest. He however called on Nigerians to come out en masse without fear to lend their voice to correcting the anomalies and the situation in the oil sector due to sharp practices and agenda to exploit Nigerians at all cost. “As we speak today, fuel is being sold in filling stations beyond the official pump price. For example, in Kaduna State, a litre of fuel sells for between N250 and N280, the situation is the same in Sokoto, Ibadan, Osogbo, Uyo, Calabar, Imo, Enugu and Port Harcourt to mention a few. “Our findings show that it is only in FCT that marketers are adhering to the official pump price of N165 per litre and this is due to the closeness to the seat of power, every other state in Nigeria is experiencing long queues and exploitation. “We will not relent on our effort in fighting for the good of the country and her people by demanding for a change of baton in non-performing agencies, NNPC Limited inclusive, as we believe that this is the only way we can have the present situation overturned. “For the record, our struggle is geared towards a better living condition for Nigerians and a better country as a whole where the impact of government will be felt positively by the people through judicious use of power and resources for the betterment of the people. “The coming of President Muhammadu Buhari to lead the country at the time when the major source of revenue is at the lowest ebb in the international market is suppose to be a blessing and not a curse as being proven on a daily basis by the actions and inactions of some of his appointees that seems not to be working in tandem with the President’s vision and the manifesto of his party. “The assertion that the President is a good man but lacks good people to work with must be corrected in one way or the other as we believe that among the 200 million people of the country, there are a lot of good and competent people that can help the President achieve his aim of transforming Nigeria to a better country in all ramification. “It is so sad that as citizens and civil society organisation, our attention is always on the President for blame game thereby giving non-performing appointees the leverage to always work at parallel line with the President. We must change this attitude if the kind of precarious situation we find ourselves as a nation must change,” Onlede said. He further noted that protesters would converge by 9am on Tuesday, March 15, 2022 to meet coordinators and members at the following locations: Lagos – Gani Fawehinmi Freedom Park, Ojota; Abuja – Unity Fountain; Osogbo – Nelson Mandela Freedom Park; Kaduna – Kofar Gamji Park, Doki; Ilorin – Kwara Amusement Park, Unity Road; Jos – Solomon Lar Amusement park, Domkak Bali Road; Port Harcourt – Isaac Boro Park, Mile 1; Owerri – Imo Golf and Amusement Park, Ugwu Orji. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity