BIOLA AZEEZ writes on the intense power struggle for tickets of political parties in Kwara State as they prepare for the choice of standard-bearers for the 2023 general election. Less than a year to the general election, political gladiators are gathering their arsenals with a view to clinching the tickets in their parties. The political atmosphere is not only becoming more interesting by the day, but gathering momentum across the country. The contenders and pretenders for the various elective positions are daily signifying their intentions to run for the offices in their various constituencies. For Kwara State, the State of Harmony, the walls of one kilometre flyover, in front of the General Post Office, Ilorin and some other public places in the metropolis have been littered with posters of aspirants. At the community levels, however, consultations with various stakeholders are on-going. With the options provided by the new amended Electoral Act 2022, the parties are at liberty to choose among direct, indirect primary or consensus arrangement to pick candidates. Though, the Kwara State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is yet to decide on the formula to adopt in picking its candidates for the various elective positions. Beyond the method to adopt in arriving at the choice of its candidates, other parameters will also play out in the selection. For instance, the House of Representatives race within PDP in Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency has commenced in earnest. Six aspirants have indicated their interests in running for the race. The gladiators for the seat include the PDP candidate for the election in 2019, Dare Bankole; former member of the green chamber, Mr Akeem Ayedun; erstwhile Commissioner for Agriculture in Kwara; Mr. Goke Bamidele; deputy Speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly during Mohammed Lawal’s administration, Chief Christopher Tunji Ayeni, Kehinde Bankole and the only female among them, Mrs Bukola Owolabi. Bankole, who is an engineer, contested the same office in 2019 and lost to Honourable Tunji Raheem Olawuyi (Ajuloopin) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by a wide margin. The Ekiti-Kwara-born politician is viewed by some pundits as someone that has never held any elective office in the state. Besides, members of the party are anxious to witness how the chances of the aspirant would translate to victory for the opposition party in the state if eventually picked as candidate. On his part, Ayedun, who was a member of the lower legislative House between 2011 and 2015, is the only Igbomina politician among the aspirants. During his four-year tenure in the House, he was credited with many bills. His empowerment cut across different age groups, religious bodies, artisan. His empowerment was not restricted to only his party members. If his achievement as a former member of the House of Representatives is anything to go by, he stands a better chance of achieving electoral success for the PDP in the next National Assembly polls. Goke Bamidele hails from Odo-Owa in Oke-Ero local government area of the state. He served in the cabinet of Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed as the commissioner for agriculture. Observers of events in the 55 years old state would like to see what the politician that they say had never contested any elective office would come up with. Christopher Tunji Ayeni was prominent in the government of Late Rear Admiral Mohammed Lawal from 1999-2003 before he decided to pitch his tent with the Saraki dynasty. He also served as a Commissioner for Agriculture under the then All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). The Isapa born politician from Ekiti local government area of Kwara, hailed for his party administrative acumen, would need to work harder to defeat five other aspirants from his Ekiti bloc. Kehinde Bankole, though a PDP stalwart in the state, has never held any political office in the past. He is also an Ekiti Kwara politician, popular in his council area, Ekiti local government area.The only female in the race within the PDP, Mrs. Owolabi is said to be fresh in the political circle in the state. The deciding factors majorly within the party are leaders at the constituency and the state level beyond other yardsticks that may be considered for the best choice of candidate. Investigations conducted among the constituents revealed that the candidate with the best credentials in all ramifications may not be picked on consensus arrangement. Therefore, conduct of primaries among the contestants may become inevitable. This, some argue, is the only option open to PDP to win the House of Representatives poll in Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency. The die is cast as the gladiators, their allies and supporters raise the stake ahead of party primaries since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed the deadline for parties to earnestly produce the list of their candidates for the general election in 2023. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details