The presidential campaign posters of the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi and that of the Central Bank Governor, Dr. Godwin Emefiele flooded the Eagle Square, the venue of the ongoing National Convention of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Abuja. Other aspirants posters displayed at the convention venue are that of Former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the current Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi. It would be recalled that Tinubu, Rochas Okorocha  and  Governor Umahi have so far signified their intentions to run for Presidency under the platform of APC. The duo went as far as informing President Muhammadu Buhari of the quest to vie for the highest seat in the country. Both Rotimi Amaechi and Godwin Emefiele are yet to come out openly to declare their intention on the platform of APC. The posters of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo was also placed at strategic locations in and around the convention venue. Osibajo’s posters did not indicate any political party but urged the public in the caption to be on the look out. In another development, delegates for the convention are still trooping in the Eagle Square ahead of the commencement of the convention proper. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details