The Ogun State Police Command has said that a man identified as Hakeem Oladimeji, who was found dead in his vehicle with his yet-to-be-identified girlfriend committed suicide. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, denied insinuation that the deceased found naked in a Sienna vehicle ” died under the burning flame of romance.” He said Oladimeji had first killed the woman believed to be his girlfriend and thereafter drank a poisonous substance. The PPRO added that the remains of the deceased had been evacuated and deposited in a hospital morgue. Tribune Online learnt that passersby discovered the bodies of the man and the woman in the vehicle parked along Mowe/Ibafo on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The Sienna vehicle with registration LAGOS LSD 992 HH was reported to have been at the same spot for about two days, while the residents out of curiosity peeped into the vehicle and found lifeless bodies. Oyeyemi said, “The two did not die while having sex. What happened was that the girl in question happened to be a girlfriend to that man. “He rented an apartment for her somewhere in Lagos. He went there to visit her. We don’t know what transpired between them, but we learnt he hit the woman on the head and she slumped. “He carried the lifeless body of the woman in his vehicle. People in that neighbourhood ran to Ilaje police station in Bariga to report. “But he drove off straight to his house at Orimerunmu. He dropped a suicide note, informing his wife that he had killed somebody. “He told his wife not to bother looking for him, asking her to take care of the children. Then he left the house. “He drove and parked near NASFAT area and he committed suicide there. We saw a container of Sniper in the vehicle, which suggested that he drank Sniper (an insecticide). He wound up the glasses and died in the vehicle. So, it is a case of murder and suicide.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.