Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, on Monday projected that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will poll over 41 million votes in the 2023 General Elections if a generally accepted presidential candidate should emerge at the party’s primary. This was just as the governor also emphasised that the emergence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu from the North Central Geo-political zone of the country as the party’s national chairman would not impede his decision to jostle for the APC presidential ticket, noting that party administration was different from governance. Governor Bello said this during an interview with the Sunrise Daily crew on Channels Television, even as stressed that the APC, as currently constituted, would not zone anyone out of the presidential race. Bello posited that the type of leader the nation required at this point in time is a competent, committed, young and vibrant individual, who, according to him, will turn the tides of the nation, irrespective of his or her region, build bridges across ethnic, religious lines, while ensuring the inclusion of youths, women and people with disability in governance. The governor, while answering questions on the recently concluded APC National Convention, which took place in Abuja, noted that the emergence of Senator Adamu was the choice of the party. He said APC went for an experienced party leader to manage its affairs, noting that the period it took to organise the convention was worth the wait. “The new party leader and the National Working Committee members have great experience to lead the party into a strong and cohesive entity. The option of consensus in selecting the majority of the party leaders was clearly in line with legal standing although positions where there was no agreed consensus, contestants went through the polls,” he said. Governor Bello assured that in the forthcoming primaries, the party would go through a democratic process that would be accepted generally by all stakeholders, adding that he was not afraid of any mode chosen by the party. On women’s inclusion in governance, the governor revealed that he would not require legislative backing to include women in government, stressing that Kogi State, under his leadership, had performed tremendously well and the reason women across the nation had been calling on him to run for president. “This is why women across the nation have been calling on me to run for president, considering the robust track record of giving women high-level inclusion in my administration,” the governor noted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  APC’ll poll 41 million votes  APC’ll poll 41 million votes  APC’ll poll 41 million votes  APC’ll poll 41 million votes ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details