A total of 112 graduates of Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, would be awarded First Class degrees at the institution’s 25th convocation holding on March 25, the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, has announced. Olatunji-Bello disclosed this at a press conference at the Senate Building of the institution on Wednesday to inform journalists on activities lined up for the ceremony. She added that the First Class graduating students were the highest number the institution had produced so far. “The total number of graduating students are 7,232 in diploma, first degree, postgraduate diplomas and Masters degrees. “Benjamin Damilare Olowu of the Department of Mechanical Engineering emerged the overall Best graduating student, having attained a 4.97 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) out of the entire graduating students of the institution. “Also, two graduating students of Masters’ degree would be graduating with a 5.0 CGPA from the Department of Peace and Religious Studies and the Department of Transportation and Logistics,” Olatunji-Bello said. The vice-chancellor said that any of the 112 first-class graduates interested would be employed as assistant lecturers in LASU. “Highlight of activities for the convocation would be sports competition for staff, a thanksgiving service, coconut breaking and cultural festival. Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State is the convocation chairman. “The convocation lecture would be delivered by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State, with the title: “Global Trends: Nigeria’s rightful place in the world.” “Rank of emeritus professor would be conferred on Professor Peter Okebukola at the ceremony. Olatunji-Bello added that the convocation would mark the first time the university’s Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative Stem Education programme would be producing graduates. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity