The Nigerian equities market ended two consecutive sessions of losses on Wednesday as the benchmark index rebounded with a 0.13 per cent gain. MTN Nigeria On market movers, telco heavyweight, MTNN (+1.45%) was the primary driver of the overall market’s performance as its shares appreciated by 1.45 per cent. Consequently, the All-Share Index of the Nigerian Exchange Limited inched up by 0.13 per cent to stand at 46,904.48 basis points, bringing both the month-to-date and year-to-date performance to stand at -1.03 per cent and 9.80 per cent respectively. Investors, therefore, gained N33 billion in the session as market capitalisation followed suit the direction of the ASI to stand at N25.279 trillion, representing a 0.13 per cent increase from the N25.246 trillion it stood at the end of the previous trading session. Bears, however, maintained dominance over the market Breadth with 17 counters in the losers’ chart pitted against 16 counters in the gainers’ chart. Cornerstone Insurance and Ikeja Hotels gained 10.00 per cent each to become the best-performing stocks in the session, followed by Eterna Oil, Meyer and Chams to populate the top five gainers’ chart. From the rear of the chart Cadbury, Japaul Gold, PZ, Royal Exchange and Multiverse populated the top five losers’ charts. Performance across sectors was mixed, with the NGX Insurance gaining 0.62 per cent, NGX Banking losing 0.60 per cent, while NGX Growth and NGX ASEM closed flat. Market activity as measured by the volume of trades shed weight at the end of the trading session as the daily traded volume stood at 201.280 million units, representing a 6.09 per cent depreciation from a volume of 214.328 million units traded in the previous session. However, the value of traded stocks inched up by 46.39 per cent in the session to stand at N2.621 billion as against a value of N1.790 billion recorded in the previous trading session. EcoBank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) dominated the volume charts as the top traded stock by volume for the trading session. This is followed by Access Holdings, Zenith Bank and Transnational Corporation to complete the list of the five most traded stocks by volume. With regards to the value of traded stocks, ETI took the lead of the top five performers as well. It is flanked by Zenith Bank, Access Holdings, Nestle Nigeria and Guaranty Trust Holding Company. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Local stock market rebounds  Local stock market rebounds Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Local stock market rebounds  Local stock market rebounds ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details