The Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday, adjourned till March 28, 2022 to rule out the bail application filed by the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari and his codefendants. The trial Judge, Justice Emeka Nwite fixed the date after taking arguments of the defence counsel on behalf of their clients and the objections of the prosecution counsel. The prosecution counsel and the Director of Legal Services of the NDLEA, Sunday Joseph informed the court of the lack of cooperation by the fourth and fifth defendants and urged the court to order them to write an undertaken of good behaviour. The court however ordered that Abba Kyari and his codefendants be further remanded at the custody of the NDLEA till March 28 slated for ruling on their bail application. Mahmud Magaji (SAN) who represented Kyari and the second defendant had, while arguing their bail application told the court that the offences for which they are charged are bailable offences and that the court should grant them bail in the interest big justice The Federal Government, through the NDLEA arraigned Abba Kyari, three police officers and two civilians on an eight-count charge, bordering on conspiracy, obstruction, and dealing in cocaine, and other related offences. While Kyari and three other defendants, ACP Sunday Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirigba, Inspector John Nuhu, who are Police officers pleaded not guilty to the eight counts charge, the two civilians, Chibuinna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne pleaded guilty to the three charges to which they were involved. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Court slates March 28 to rule on Abba Kyari, others’ bail application  Court slates March 28 to rule on Abba Kyari, others’ bail application Court slates March 28 to rule on Abba Kyari, others’ bail application  Court slates March 28 to rule on Abba Kyari, others’ bail application ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more