LAGOS State University (LASU), Ojo, has commenced its work-study policy with 10 students of the institution studying different courses as a pioneer set. The scheme is one of the six- cardinal agenda of the administration of the current vice chancellor of the university, Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello who assumed office six months ago. Receiving the pioneer set in her office on Thursday last week, Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello said the overall objective of the scheme was to empower the students of the university with work experience right from school and at the same time, raise some incomes for them. She said the choice of fixing the students on ICT-related jobs and with the directorate of ICT of the school was to enable them to acquire ICT knowledge and skills that had become most relevant globally across fields of human endeavours. She congratulated them for the opportunity and also encouraged them to make the best out of it. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In his remark at the event, the acting director, Directorate of ICT and project manager, Dr Toyin Enikuomehin, said the 10 students had already worked for one week and had four-month work duration for the first instance and are entitled to monthly stipend is from the school. He said the programme was designed in such a manner that it would not affect the academic and other activities expected of students, noting that the pioneer set had already demonstrated their love for the scheme. He said the students were selected by the Students’ Union and would work on the digitalisation of academic records of the university from 1984 to 2005, adding that they had already carried out about 3,500 digitalisation contents within one week. Some of the students,    appreciated the vice chancellor and her team for the uncommon chance and promised to maximise the  chance to learn new skills and build their profiles for greater opportunities in the future. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details