Tragedy struck, on Tuesday night, as the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) of the Nigeria Police, DIG Joseph Egbunike, is dead. It was gathered that the deceased who hailed from Onitsha, Anambra State reportedly slumped in his office, at the Force Headquarters Annex, Area 10, Garki District Abuja on Tuesday night and died before any help could come The sudden death has thrown the entire Force Headquarters and its Annex in Abuja into a total mourning mood. Consequently, normal human activities have been paralysed as the incident was the topic of discussion in a sobber mood. Until his death, Egbunike headed the Special Investigation Panel constituted by the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, to investigate the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police Abba Kyari over alleged money laundering. Efforts to speak with the Force Spokesperson, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on the development proved abortive as he was said to be attending a crucial meeting with his superiors. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. DIG Egbunike slumps, dies in Abuja Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. DIG Egbunike slumps, dies in Abuja ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more