A professor of Applied Social Psychology in the Department of Managerial Psychology, University of Ibadan, Professor Peter O. Olapegba, member representing Ibadan Northwest/Southwest, federal constituency, Honourable Adedeji Stanley Olajide, (Odidiomo), Bishop Professor Roland Peter of the International College of Ministry, Ibadan,  among others have extolled the virtues of  Professor Samuel Oyelakin  Awobode, who is also the current chairman of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Oyo State Branch. They said his contributions to education, nation’s building and humanity have been priceless. They gave the commendation at the retirement service, book launch and birthday celebration of the celebrant held recently at the International Conference Centre of the Lead City University (LCU). Delivering a lecture at the event on the topic, ‘Grace for Accomplishment: Myth, Facts or Fiction,’ Professor Olapegba said: “Grace is neither a myth nor a fiction.  It is more than a fact; it is the true reality of God in the life of a man,” adding also that “accomplishment is a result of combination of factors and grace in the overriding factor.” He noted that factors such as hardwork, brilliance skills and good environment “are not enough to make one achieve success in life, but what make the difference is grace, which he described as God’s benevolence that delivers unto a man the blessing that he does not deserve; makes his minimum to yield maximum output as well as the divine nature that empowers the acquired knowledge, skills, diligence, character and the environment to support the effort of a man for maximum yield. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He noted that factors such as hardwork, brilliance skills and good environment “are not enough to make one achieve success in life, but what make the difference is grace, which he described as God’s benevolence that delivers unto a man the blessing that he does not deserve; makes his minimum to yield maximum output as well as the divine nature that empowers the acquired knowledge, skills, diligence, character and the environment to support the effort of a man for maximum yield. On his part, Honourable Adedeji, described the celebrant as a man of many people and achievements, who had lived a sixty years of impact. Promising be part of more such thing in the constituency, he attested that apart from being a good steward in the Oyo state civil service when it came to discharging his duty as the director of Special Investigation and deputy Auditor General for Local Government, Oyo State, Professor Oyelakin Awobode, is also a unique man of God. In his remarks, Bishop Professor Philip Peter of the International College of Ministry, Ibadan, who said considering the humble background of the celebrant and author and the successes he had achieved in the space of 60 years, it was obvious that he did not waste or took for the grace of God upon his life for granted, but worked hard with all the opportunities God had given him. He encouraged others to make their lives count while still living, make the right choices in life as well as invest in humanity. Expressing his joy at the success and great turn out at the event, the author and retiree said he was humbled by the success of the programme. “I really want to thank God for sparing my life to finish well in the Oyo State civil service without any blemish, having served the State for 32 years as well as God sparing my life to witness my 60th birthday; all of these can only be by the grace of God, hence the theme of the celebration.” Speaking on what inspired him to write the two books, ‘But For Grace’ and ‘More Than Conquerors’ said looking back at his background and the initial plan of his father to make him succeed him as an *_Ifa_* Priest and later a yam flour miller due to paucity of funds to further his secondary education, had inspired him to document the story of his life to inspire others. In her speech, Professor Awobode’s wife, Pastor (Mrs) Elizabeth Awobode, expressed her joy and thanked God Almighty for sparing her husband’s life, saying, “he is a man of the people and a goal-getter and that is the reason I gave him my full support. The highlight of the event of the was the presentation of global impact awards in recognition of his professional and scholarly contributions to knowledge by the Global Socio Economic and Financial Donation Network and the founder\chairman of the Hired Consult, Ghana, Dr John Aggey done by the Professor Blessing Lawal and Mrs Lois Treasure respectively. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity