The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has described as untrue recent allegation made by the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) that its server keeps failing, recently for up to four days at a stretch, causing a backlog of uncleared cargoes. Customs Public Relations Officers of the three busiest ports in the country told our reporter that such server failure never happened in their commands. Abubakar Usman, Uche Ejesieme and Ifeoma Onuigbo of Apapa, Tin-Can Island and Onne Port Commands who spoke in different telephone interviews with Tribune Online described the allegation as untrue. Usman said: “Not to the best of my understanding in Apapa. They should be specific about which of the ports, we did not experience four days server downtime.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Reacting, Ejesieme said: “It can’t be Tin-Can. We are not aware of that. We don’t have backlog of uncleared cargoes due to network issues. That’s not true. “Network has never been our challenge. Anytime there is the issue of network failure, we notify Webb Fontaine and Interswitch, the technical partners to Customs to address it. “Don’t forget that we don’t control the network. The Federal Government appointed Webb Fontaine and Interswitch to provide the technical support, so the network has never been the problem. Occasionally it comes and goes; sometimes it fluctuates, but that wasn’t the problem at all. “Sometimes it causes delays, but it is not as rampant as they make it to be. It is exaggerated.” Onuigbo told our reporter that ” I am hearing this for the first time from you who is asking me. We have never had such problem in Onne. Our system is working fine and no one has complained about it” The association had in a recent letter to the Minister of Finance alleged that the Custom network problem lingers for more than four days, causing freight forwarders to incur costs over trapped cargoes at the ports. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Allegation of seaport server collapse not true, Customs replies NAGAFF Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Allegation of seaport server collapse not true, Customs replies NAGAFF ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.