A suspected serial motorcycle thief and a member of a syndicate who specialises in stealing motorcycles has been burnt to death by an angry mob in Ondo town, headquarters of Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo state. It was gathered that members of the gang had on Sunday morning invaded an area in the Sabo area and attempted to steal a motorcycle before one of them was apprehended while others escaped from the scene. The arrested suspect was handed over to policemen in the Fagun police station but it was gathered that one of the members of the gang returned to the scene to know the whereabouts of the arrested suspect. He was, however, identified as a member of the gang who visited the area in the early hour of the day as he had been arrested severally for motorcycle thefts and was subsequently beaten to a pulp before he was set ablaze. He was said to have tried to run away from the scene but some youths chased him, apprehended him and set him ablaze. An eyewitness, Meyo Adeola, explained that “the victim had been in the habit of stealing car batteries, generating sets and motorcycles in the area, while residents have been on the lookout for him. “The last time he was apprehended by the residents and handed over to the police but he was said to have been warned but he never heeded to the warning until he was nabbed on Monday. “He was here in the company of his other members in the early hours of Monday to steal a motorcycle and injured the motorcyclist, but the cry of the victim alerted the residents of the area and they mobilised and laid siege for him. He was apprehended on Monday morning, beaten and burnt to death. The Police at Fagun Division confirmed the incident and said the residents informed the station that a suspected thief was set ablaze in the Sabo area. The police source, who described the action of the residents as barbaric, advised people not to take laws into their hands but said four people have been arrested in connection with the killing of the suspect. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more