The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila has said that his spirit is wounded over Monday’s attack by terrorists on an Abuja-Kaduna bound train, which led to the death of a yet-to-be-established number of Nigerians. Several others either injured or kidnapped by the terrorists are also going through harrowing experiences, leaving families weeping and praying for their safety. The Speaker commiserated with the families of the victims in a statement he personally signed on Tuesday. He noted: “Last night, an unknown number of men and women were killed, injured and kidnapped by terrorists in an attack on a train travelling from Abuja to Kaduna. “My spirit is wounded by this tragic attack. And my heart goes out to the families who are now living through an experience that no one should ever endure. “The dead, wounded and missing are our brothers and sisters going about their lives. They had families and friends waiting for them to come home last night. Some of them will never go home again.
“Others will live the rest of their lives with the memory and injury of this tragic encounter. “I commiserate with the families of the dead and pray for a quick recovery for the injured. I strongly urge the national security agencies to find and account for all the passengers who boarded that train and whose whereabouts remain unknown to their families and loved ones.” Hon. Gbajabiamila added that the losses to insecurity in the last two decades were needless and must end. “For nearly two decades, we have confronted evolving national security challenges. Too many of our fellow citizens have died or had their lives permanently altered by a confrontation with the evil they neither sought nor provoked. This is an untenable state of affairs.” Much as the incident called for mourning, the Speaker said it was also a day the House step up its legislative overnight by thoroughly investigating the circumstances that led to the attacks. Hon. Gbajabiamila challenged security agencies to redouble their efforts in finding urgent solutions to the repeated killings. He said: “Today is a day of mourning. But it must also be a day of action. The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the circumstances of this tragic attack and the security response to understand why these security breaches continue to occur despite substantial and ongoing investments in improving our national security architecture. The outcome of that investigation will guide our actions going forward. “A tragedy like this has the power to further exacerbate the differences that too often plague our public discourse. “However, it is my sincere hope that the memory of the ones we have lost and a renewed appreciation for our shared humanity will bring us together in a bond of national unity from whence we can derive strength and courage to confront and defeat the terrors that plague our land. “May God bless the memory of the dead. May his love heal the wounded, and his grace comforts the bereaved.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details