The Vice-Chancellor of Imo State University Prof. Uchefula Ugonna Chukwumaeze has identified cultism as the greatest problem bedevilling universities in Nigeria. The VC made the revelation when he received members of Police Campaign Against Cultism and Other Vicese POCACOV in his office on Saturday on a courtesy visit. He said that if the problem of cultism is completely eradicated in the universities, it will offer institutions opportunity to pursue their aims and visions. The VC exornerated the Imo State University as one of the universities in the country that has minimal cultism attributing it to absence of bushes arround the University. He said that some tertiary Institutions across the country are sorrounded by thick bushes that shields the cultist adding that in IMSU there is no such bush sorrounded the institution. He said: ” in Imo State University, we do not have any bush arround us where cultist can hid themselves”. The Vice Chancellor expressed his appreciation on the vision of POCACOV while appealing to them to assist the university in temming cultism activities in the campus through creation of awareness and snsitization that would discourage students from engaging in cultism related activities in the campus In his speach earlier, the Imo State Coordinator of POCACOV, Comrade Kennedy Onwunali enumerated some of the aims behind the setting up POCACOV,which is mainly to serve as NPF community policing initiative and a public relations tools. He said that POCACOV plays active role of helping in the areas mobilization, participation,partnership and problem solving as it concerns issues of cultism and other social vices prevalent amongst youth. While congratulating the Vice Chancellor on his appointment as the VC, he intimated the VC the POCACOV was designed by the Nigerian Police Force to address certain issues in the society and finding solutions to it. According to him POCACOV does not arrest but are saddled with the responsibilities of providing best idears for solving certain problems in the society He revealed plans by POCACOV to hold a program in the state that would attract the Commissioner of Police and other top Securuty personnel to address and enlighten people on the work of POCACOV. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details