The wife of the former head of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Force, suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari on Monday slumped court. DCP Abba Kyari is standing trial along with four other codefendants over on an eight-count charge, bordering on conspiracy, obstruction, dealing in cocaine, and other related offences. While Kyari and three other defendants, ACP Sunday Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirigba, Inspector John Nuhu, who are Police officers pleaded not guilty to the eight counts charge, the two civilians, Chibuinna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne pleaded guilty to the three charges to which they were involved. Kyari’s wife slumped while using the stair case of the Federal High Court in Abuja after the Judge, Justice Emeka Nwite handling the case of her husband and his codefendants on the fifth floor of the court shifted ruling on her husband’s bail application to March 28. She was rushed to the processes office, on the third floor of the court by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). She was said to be recuperating in that office, with Kyari with her, as at the time of filling this report. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Abba Kyari’s wife slumps in court Abba Kyari’s wife slumps in court  Abba Kyari’s wife slumps in court  Abba Kyari’s wife slumps in court ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more