The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Abia Chapter has advised aspirants to ensure that they are capable of leading the party to victory in any election in the state. The state party chairman, Allwell Asiforo Okere, handed down this advice Tuesday in the Umuahia party headquarters when an Osisioma Ngwa-born industrialist, Enyinnaya Chima Nwafor, came to express his interest to contest for the governorship seat. Represented by the state party Deputy Chairman, Obinna Nwachukwu, Asiforo assured that the leadership of the party will conduct free, fair and credible primaries, adding “If the election didn’t favour you, congratulate the winner.” He said the party will install a good candidate and will stand for anybody that is running and “who has the capacity to win election”, and urged them to “show capacity to win”. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Earlier in his speech, the aspirant, Nwafor said his passion to re-engineer and rebuild Abia State is the driving force that is propelling him to contest for the governorship seat in the state, stating that he will bring on board “practical governance”. He disclosed that he will employ house taxation, the motorisation of 216 “critical junctions” in the state in terms of security, will focus on workers’ welfare, and will enhance the existing 292 primary healthcare centres in the state and make them community-based. He further stated that he will ensure due process in all he is doing through community concentration in the award of contracts, adding “It takes an engineer like me to rebuild, re-develop and re-engineer Abia through industrialisation.”   ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details