The House of Representatives on Wednesday unveiled plans to investigate the activities of all the Deposit Money Banks operating across the country with a view to check excessive charges imposed on customers. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Sergius Ogun. In his lead debate, Hon. Ogun observed that Section 88(1 and 2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) empowered the National Assembly to conduct investigations into the activities of any authority executing or administering laws made by the National Assembly. “The House is aware that most of the Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria impose excessive and non-statutory charges on varying bank transactions carried out by customers. “The House is also aware that in January 2020, in the bid to, among other things, stop the indiscriminate imposition of charges by Deposit Money Banks, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) issued a Guide to Charges by Banks, other Financial Institutions and Non-Bank Financial Institutions, stating the approved bank charges to be imposed by Deposit Money Banks. “The House is concerned that despite the Guide issued by the CBN, some Banks still deduct outrageous amounts of money from their customers in the guise of bank charges with different descriptions. “The House is worried that in most cases, the deductions are already covered by the CBN approved monthly Account Maintenance Fee (AMF), thus amounting to double deduction. In his remarks, Hon. Sada Soli observed that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s policy on financial inclusiveness led to money deposit banks charging customers for both deposits and withdrawals, including other changes which were burdensome on bank customers. To this end, the House mandated its Committee on Banking and Currency to investigate the excessive charges on bank transactions by Deposit Money Banks in Nigeria and report back within four weeks for further legislative action. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity