The alumni association of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) has canvassed the selection of an old student of the institution as its next vice-chancellor in May 2022. The association made the call in a position paper it presented to the pro-chancellor and chairman of the governing council, Dr Godknows Igali. According to the president of the FUTA Alumni Worldwide, Mr Adeyemi Bello, who led a delegation to Dr Igali, there are many alumni of FUTA who are in senior academic positions that could be appointed as the institution’s vice-chancellor. He said FUTA, which was established in 1981, has produced graduates that are technology-oriented, self-reliant and relevant to the immediate society, including leading academics all over the world, and one of them should be the next vice chancellor. Adeyemi said in the last 40 years, the university had consistently produced graduates who are now industries chiefs, top civil servants, foremost scientists in Africa and the world at large, saying it is worthy of note that alumni of FUTA have served creditably as heads of other institutions in Nigeria and as such should be given the chance to also steer the ship of FUTA a vice chancellor. “Our alma mater has trained and produced seasoned administrators for higher institutions such as vice chancellor, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, and Ondo State University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa; rector Federal Polytechnic, Ile Oluji, among others. These people had served with core values of our alma mater: that is integrity, creativity and innovativeness, accountability, rationality and excellence, and there were no report of maladministration, financial misappropriation, scandal of any nature or corruption allegations against them,” Adeyemi said. Adeyemi was accompanied by Comrade Adesomoju Olaitan and Victor Ifezue, former alumni presidents, and some members of the Abuja branch of the association. He appealed to the pro-chancellor to use his good office to bring to reality the age-long dream of the alumni association to produce one of their many competent and qualified academic leaders as the next vice chancellor of FUTA. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team