The Registrar and Chief executive of the National Examination Council (NECO) Prof Dantani Ibrahim Wushishi, has said that the examination body will not run short of the internationally accepted standards in the conduct of its examination. Wushishi gave stated this while declaring opened a 2-day workshop on quality assurance for some members of staff at the headquarters of NECO in Minna on Monday. He noted that NECO as a true and viable examination body must take its enviable height in line with global best practices through quality assurance. “The reputation and image of the council must be protected and enhanced through diligent observance of acceptable norms in assessment industry both nationally and internationally,” he said. According to him, “the examination body has deliberately promoted policies to ensure that all services rendered to her teeming clients must not run short of internationally accepted standards.” HE added that “this is why we have taken pains to ensure that the procedures during the provision and rendering of the services must conform to globally accepted assessment practice.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The NECO boss noted that the surest way of keeping and invigorating the capacity of an organisation was through updating the knowledge of its human resources by conducting capacity building that will avail the staff the opportunity to develop themselves ethically and make them cognitive sound in their jobs. “NECO is a member of an international assessment organization and our products are candidates that seek admission and jobs both nationally and internationally. This workshop is aimed therefore to equip participants with the required skills to compete favourably with their counterparts internationally,” he stated. Speaking earlier, the Director, Quality Assurance Department of the Council, Dr Onwuakpa Williams, explained that the workshop with the theme: “Invigorating and Repositioning the National Examination Council” will address the concept of quality assurance and emerging issues in educational assessment, the place of quality assurance in enhancing staff performance for efficient service delivery in public examination and strengthening interdepartmental/Zonal/state office relationship for effective service delivery along with the relevance of ICT in examination development and administration for quality assurance. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details