THE University of Lagos Muslim Alumni (UMA) annual pre-Ramadan lecture will be held on Sunday at the main auditorium of the University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos. According to the UMA president, Alhaji Shuaib Salisu, the 27th edition of the lecture, themed ‘Leadership Recruitment: The Missing Anchor in Our National Development,’ will feature the Chief Missioner of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society Worldwide, Sheikh AbdurRahman Ahmad; former Minister of Education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili and petroleum economist/lecturer at the Department of Economics, Umar Musa Yar’Adua University, Katsina, Dr Ahmed Adamu, as guest speakers. Salisu said a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Attahiru Jega, would chair the event while the vice chancellor of UNILAG, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe would be the chief host. He said the lecture would address problems of political leadership recruitment in the country according to Islamic and western perspectives. Salisu, who is the Chief of Staff to the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, stated that UMA had gained national prominence because of its focus on issues of national importance, the quality and diversity of the speakers and the general organisation of the programme. He said: “The diversity of speakers brings different perspectives, enriches and deepens the conversation. “Initiated about three decades ago, this year’s edition is the 27th in the series and the theme was carefully chosen in view of the generally acknowledged leadership challenge at all levels in the country.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…UNILAG Muslim Alumni holds  UNILAG Muslim Alumni holds Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…UNILAG Muslim Alumni holds  UNILAG Muslim Alumni holds ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details