Members of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) and the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) across states the South West on Wednesday, staged a rally to demand autonomy of local government, state and the legislative arm of government. The rally spanned from the Oyo State Secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Ibadan to the premises of the Oyo State House of Assembly. In his remarks, the Oyo State Chairman of the NLC, Kayode Martins explained that the rally is to ask the state Houses of Assembly to amend the 1999 Constitution to accommodate autonomy of local government, judiciary and the legislative arm of government. Martins described the current state of affairs with the administration of the local government system as undemocratic and absurd. Also speaking, the Chairman of the Lagos state chapter of the NLC, Funmi Sessi and the Chairman, South West NULGE, Abimbola Babalola said their petition is a call for electoral stability, rapid grassroots development, protection of each arm of government in the discharge of their duties, among others. Various other speakers drawn from the six Southwestern States, comprising Lagos, Ekiti, Ogun, Ondo, Osun and Oyo said it was imperative for the Houses of Assembly to also pass the bills just as passed by the national assembly. They noted that the passage of the relevant bills will enable the local government, judiciary and legislature to perform optimally. They added that the rally is to solicit the support of the lawmakers to hasten the passage of the local government financial autonomy bill into law. In his response, Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Honourable Adebo Ogundoyin said the State House of Assembly is in full support of the request for the unions, stressing that their requests will bring nothing but development. He pledged the readiness of the state Assembly to support the implementation of the bills adding that the Assembly will convene the meeting of state Houses of Assembly in the South West to fashion out modalities for the realisation of the bills. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity