The newly elected president of the Nigerian Universities Games Association (NUGA), Emeka Ogbu, has assured that he would make the games a scouting ground for the various sports to pick representatives for the country. Ogbu who was inaugurated as the President of NUGA during the 26th edition of the games in Lagos stated this on Monday in a chat with newsmen in Benin City. The new NUGA boss said that his experience as the 1st Vice President under the immediate past President, Stephen Hamafyelto, had prepared him for what it takes to achieve that feat through the organisation of the games at a very high level. Ogbu promised to work together with various Directors of Sports in affiliate Universities to ensure the next NUGA games had the best of organisation and innovative ideas. “We will collaborate and bring the best of brains to raise the bar in terms of preparation and sourcing for partnerships to improve the quality of our sporting competitions”, he reinstated. Ogbu, It would be recalled, was returned unopposed to become the new NUGA President after his only opponent, Nnadozie Cliford, of Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia State, voluntarily stepped down from the race. Ogbu who is of the Enugu State University of Science Technology, ESUT, would steer the Nigeria University Games Association for a period of two years. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details