Officials of Lagos Rapid Response Squad (RRS) earlier today recovered a Toyota Highlander, a locally made cut to size double barrel gun with three live cartridges, a dog (American Eskimo breed) and jewellery from fleeing armed robbers in Alagbado area. Also found in the vehicle with the registration number AGL 276 AQ, were: two HP laptops, one NEC laptop, one LG TV, one iPhone 12 Pro max, one Elepac generator, two kitchen knives. The robbers who were heading into Lagos around 2:20 a.m. from Abeokuta were accosted by Rapid Response Squad (RRS) officials on patrol at Adura Bus Stop, Alagbado. The four occupants abandoned the vehicle and fled in different directions. The robbers, preliminary investigations have revealed were coming from Abeokuta where they engaged in a house–to–house robbery. It was discovered that they collected the vehicle of one of their victims to convey their loot from the scenes. The vehicle was brought to RRS headquarters in Ikeja, where the Commander, RRS, CSP Yinka Egbeyemi directed the Decoy team of the squad to commence investigation into the case with a view to unravelling the owner of the vehicle and the suspects. The owner of the vehicle has been contacted in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Police are presently gathering more information that would assist in the arrest of the fleeing suspects. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police recover vehicle  Police recover vehicle Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police recover vehicle  Police recover vehicle ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details