This year’s edition of the Mike Okonkwo National Essay Competition among senior secondary school students across the country has begun. The annual competition with this year’s edition 17th in the series is being organised to mark the birthday anniversary of the presiding Bishop of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM), Dr Mike Okonkwo, as a way of contributing to the development of the education sector and the economy by extension. And just like the previous editions, the competition is voluntary and free of charge to willing students from any government approved secondary school nationwide. Announcing the commencement in a statement made available to journalists In Lagos, the Corporate Services Director of TREM, Rev. (Mrs.) Oluwayomi Uteh, said all is set to start receiving entries from participants who are to write an essay on the theme “Nigeria, a country at war against itself: The problems, the solutions and the way forward.” She said participants had between March 14 and May 20 to submit their essays, which must not be more than 2,000 words and sent as an email to an address given as essay@trem.org and with their full details including full name and address, passport photograph, contact telephone number, school name, class, name and telephone contact of their principals. She said in addition to a cash prize of N100, 000; N75, 000, and N50, 000 for the first, second, and third prize winners respectively, the first prize winner would also go home with a laptop and a plaque while his or her school would get three sets of personal computers. The second prize winner, she added, would get a plaque and his or her school would receive two sets of personal computers while only the school of the third prize winner would get one personal computer. Mrs. Uteh explained that the competition is one of the Corporate Social Responsibility activities of Bishop Mike Okonkwo and that it has over the years become a platform for the senior high school students to demonstrate their knowledge of societal issues in the country, sharpen their writing and thinking skills and consequently lifting the education sector. She said the competition with an independent panel of jurists to assess entries would be in three stages with the top three winners to be announced and rewarded with their prizes at the 21st Mike Okonkwo Annual Lecture to mark the 77th birthday anniversary of Bishop Okonkwo in September, in Lagos. She said the cleric is so passionate about the essay competition which has it topic the same as the annual lecture. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more