Justice Emeka Nwite of a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Monday, refused the bail request filed by the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari and his co-defendants in the illegal cocaine deal charges slammed against them by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The agency, on March 7, 2022 arraigned Kyari, a former Head of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Force and four members of the team, along with two other civilians on an eight-count charge. After their arraignment, the defendants applied for bail, arguing that they were entitled to bail on the grounds that the alleged offences do not attract capital punishment and that they are still presumed innocent. The prosecuting lawyer, Joseph Sunday, while arguing against the bail applications on March 14, had described Kyari as a “flight risk”, especially as the police officer faces pending charges of money laundering in the United States. In a 21-paragraph counter-affidavit, the agency, through its Director, Prosecution and Legal Services said that Kyari would “escape and had the capacity to interfere with witnesses”, if granted bail by the court. Justice Nwite, while ruling on the bail applications, on Monday, agreed with the prosecution that sufficient evidence had been placed before the court to warrant the refusal of bail. “The prosecution has led sufficient evidence linking the defendants to the alleged offences. It is trite that bail is not absolute and at the discretion of the court. Therefore, the application for bail is hereby refused,” the judge held. The Federal Government, through the NDLEA arraigned Abba Kyari, three police officers and two civilians on an eight-count charge, bordering on conspiracy, obstruction, and dealing in cocaine, and other related offences. While Kyari and three other defendants, ACP Sunday Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirigba, Inspector John Nuhu, who are Police officers pleaded not guilty to the eight counts charge, the two civilians, Chibuinna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne pleaded guilty to the three charges to which they were involved. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details