The Sultan of Sokoto, Dr Sa’ad Abubakar III has appealed to businessmen/women, traders and other services provided across the country not to use the Ramadan fasting period to hike prices in order to make things difficult for people, particularly Muslims. The Sultan who is the President General of Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) also said that the present economic situation in the country should not be the reason for hiking of prices during the Holy month of Ramadan. Sa’ad Abubakar was speaking at the closing ceremony of the 36th National Qur’anic Recitation Competition held in Bauchi on Saturday at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium. He encouraged Muslims particularly leaders to fear Allah and live peacefully, saying that they will account of their deeds on the last day. The Sultan further advised them to continue to tread the path of peace in order to promote peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences across the country as well as pray for the leaders of the country. He then commended the Bauchi State government and Organizers of the competition for successfully hosting the event in the state, saying that the competition did not only produce winners, but fostered unity among Muslims and other religions in the state. In his address, Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala Abdulƙadir Muhammad said that his administration will take full scholarship responsibility of the winners of the Qur’anic Recitation hosted by the State government. The Governor announced a donation of the sum of N10m to the winners of the competition as well as the sum of N5m to all the judges as a means of appreciation for what they did during the competition as well as to serve as incentives to do more next time. Bala Muhammad further said that hosting the competition in Bauchi was a positive recognition and honour for his administration and the entire People of the state. He commended the Sultan of Sokoto, Saad Abubakar III who is the President General of NSCIA for his untiring efforts at seeing that Islam took its rightful position as a religion in the country as well as the leadership that has continued to ensure success of the Recitation Competition over the years. He used the medium to call on the Qur’anic reciters to use the messages contained in the Qur’an and offer prayers of peace and peaceful co-existence among Nigerian Citizens as well as improved economic development of the country. Bala Muhammad also commended the management of Usmanu Ɗan Fodiyo University, Sokoto for organizing the Qur’anic Recitation Competition calling on Islamic Clerics to intensify efforts in educating the citizens on good virtues in order to escape the wrath of Allah. The Governor also commended the courage of the youngest competitor, Amina Idris Muhammad from Cross River state, said that hus administration will take up full scholarship responsibility of her education as well as support her for a better life to enable her concentrate on the reciting the Holy Qur’an. Bala Mohammed further commended all the roles played faith-based organizations who promote the learning and recitation of the Qur’an, traditional leaders and the Center for Islamic Studies of the Usman Danfodio University Sokoto and Organizers of the competition for successfully hosting the event in the state. He also said that since the inception of the National Qur’anic Recitation Competition in 1985, Bauchi state is hosting the event for the third time, which he noted was one of the achievements of his administration. The Governor said that the annual National Qur’anic Recitation Competition should not only be seen as an opportunity to win prizes by the contestants, stressing that in addition to memorizing and reciting the Qur’an, it is necessary to put into practice all the verses written in the Qur’an as instructed by Allah. According to him, “You will agree with me that the world today is faced with numerous challenge ranging from material and moral corruption, intellectual bankruptcy, insecurity and other social abnormalities.This state of affairs is threatening the socio-economic and the various parts of the world as a planet that is worth living in” “I want to call on all God-fearing Muslims, especially our respected Ulamas to intensify prayers at all times and places, especially at gatherings such as this. The banditry, insecurity is happening within our midst, we need to ask ourselves why, can we change it? Have we offended Allah? if so we should have some introspection so that we will be able to go for the expiation of our sins, for Allah to forgive us so that we will not be in this kind of mess we have found ourselves” he said The Governor charged leaders at all levels to live by the fear of God and by example even as he called on parents and guardians to ensure proper upbringing of their children, stressing that the society requires serious moral orientation as most of the challenges bedeviling the nation is associated with the attitude of people. Abba Sanyinna Goni Muktar from Borno state emerged the winner in the male category while Haulatu Aminu Ishaq from Zamfara state emerged winner in the female category. They were presented with cash gifts of N3m each by the Sultan of Sokoto, Dr Saad Abubakar III just as the Committee of the competition gave them N2m each. There were other donors of cash and other gifts to the winners. Not fewer than 328 participants across the 36 states of the Federation and FCT contested in the competition, making Bauchi state to play host to the competition at the national level for the third time.Out of the number,168 were males and 160 were females. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details