The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has criticised the Department of State Services (DSS) for allegedly enlisting the labour union among clandestine groups that tend to unleash violence on the streets and destabilize the country. NLC in a press statement signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba late Monday 21 March 2022 and made available to journalists, said it was unfortunate and smacks of sheer mischief for DSS to take such action. “The attention of the Nigeria Labour Congress has been drawn to a press release by the Department of State Services (DSS) lumping labour unions in a list of clandestine groups allegedly organizing to subvert public order, unleash violence on our streets and destabilize the country. “The linking of trade unions and by extension national labour centers with such subterfuge and criminality by the DSS is indeed very unfortunate and smacks of sheer mischief.” Furthermore, the largest trade union in Africa said, “First, trade unions and national labour centres such as the Nigeria Labour Congress are independent organizations recognized by both our national laws and international conventions with fundamental rights and liberties to associate, organize and undertake activities in the defence of workers’ rights and interests. By the provisions of our laws and in line with global industrial relations standards, no permission is required under the law for peaceful assembly of workers and citizens. “In any case, as a responsible national labour centre, the Nigeria Labour Congress always informs the Department of State Services and indeed other security agencies of our activities especially when such are undertaken in the public space. In all our undertakings as trade unions and labour centres, we have never been found to be violent or complicit in encouraging acts of brigandage. “It is, therefore, surprising that the DSS would suddenly decide to lump trade unions in a log of organizations with subversive intentions. “Second, trade unions exist to protect the interest of their members. “Some of the socio-economic realities pointed out by the Department of State Services in its press releases such as the current strike action by university lecturers and the scarcity of refined petroleum products are all of legitimate concern to citizens. “Citizens have the right to draw the attention of government to their plight through petitions, peaceful protests, and other advocacy initiatives. It would be greatly disrespectful to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and our democratic order to issue statements that appear to scare citizens from their rights to peacefully engage their government. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The Nigeria Labour Congress has already condemned and rejected the current paralysis of academic activities in our universities which we believe is as a result of government dishonouring commitments made in Collective Bargaining Agreements with university lecturers. “We have also lampooned the persisting scarcity of refined petroleum products which have exposed our people especially workers to great suffering and anguish. We have already spoken and we are still speaking to draw the attention of the government to do the needful. “The Congress is also deeply worried that the repeated collapse of the national electricity grid in the past few weeks has thrown most of the country in total blackout. “We are further concerned that the continued issuing of estimated billings to electricity consumers by DISCOs have intensified the suffering Nigerians are going through. We have had reasons in the past to protest against the neglect of Nigeria’s critical electricity assets and anti-people electricity policies. “We do not need clandestine meetings with State Governors, some of whom treat workers terribly, to ventilate our concerns on issues that affect Nigerian workers and people. Our pain as citizens, workers, students, traders and professionals becomes more excruciating with the knowledge that our ordeal and vicissitudes are all self-inflicted. “We urge the security agencies that instead of investing in scare alarms, they should rather re-channel their energy and resources and help bring to justice the real enemies of public order and stability – importers of adulterated petrol, petroleum marketers and filling station operators who are busier in ungodly hours selling to black marketers, and dispense with only one pump or two in broad daylight thus subjecting citizens to harrowing petrol queues.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details