Kaduna State Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Alh Muhammad Sani Dattijo has declared his intention to run for governor. The Commissioner who was the immediate past Chief of Staff to Governor Nasir El-Rufai indicated his interest when he paid a consultative visit to the Speaker, Kaduna State House of Assembly, Rt. Honourable Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani. “I am here for consultation. Earlier, I met with our father, the state governor and later, I met with our mother, the deputy governor. “Now I am here to meet with the legislative arm, where my big brother is the leader of the house and my father’s, friends and grandfathers are all members of the Assembly.” Dattijo remarked that he it was few days ago, he was given the nod to start consultations and I want to say here Iam towards my resolve to join the gubernatorial race. The Speaker, Yusuf Zailani said Kaduna Assembly is open to everyone. We do not and will not stop anyone from consultation and advice. He said, Kaduna State Governor has no candidate, but he always prays for God to bring a better candidate for the state. “We in the assembly we are working hand in hand with the state government. “We at the State Assembly, pray for your success. We appreciate your visit, which shows us that we are important,” he said. Commenting further, the Speaker explained that leadership is from God and he chooses whomever he wishes. He therefore, tasked the aspirant to embrace a peaceful campaign and instruct his supporters to do the same. “We urge all aspirants to call on their supporters to stop social media attack or insult. “We are one in APC. Our father in Kaduna is Malam Nasir el-Rufai and our mother is Dr. Hadiza sabuwa Balarabe and I am the first son of of the state,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Kaduna budget commissioner declares intention  Kaduna budget commissioner declares intention  Kaduna budget commissioner declares intention  Kaduna budget commissioner declares intention ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity