The police on Friday declared before the independent investigative panel on human rights violations by the defunct SARS and other police units, sitting in Abuja, that a police officer who shot a petitioner, Tairu Garba, acted within the ambit of the law. Counsel for the police, Fidelis Ogbobe, made the declaration while adopting his final written address in the petition filed before the panel by Garba, marked 2020/IIP-SARS/ABJ/164, in which he alleged torture, cruel and inhuman treatment against Inspector Atabo Okpanachi of Enjema Police Division in Kogi State, the state Commissioner of Police and Inspector-General of Police. Ogbobe told the panel that shooting Garba was justified in law, submitting that the fact that the life of the officer in question was in danger necessitated the shooting. According to the police counsel, Garba had not been able to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt, adding that the case had some elements of criminality. He submitted that going by the petitioner’s written address regarding the evidence of the second respondent, Ali Abubakar,  the police officers’ lives were in danger before Garba was shot having attempted to snatch a police rifle. Garba had on August 11, 2021 while testifying before the panel said he could no longer farm since he was shot in the left leg, which was eventually amputated. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Narrating what led to his leg being amputated, Garba informed that in the night of July 7, 2020, it was discovered that a young man buried charms at a place members of his community used to meet and he went to Enjema Police station to report it. He further informed that on the following day, while they gathered at the spot where the charms were buried, Inspector Okpanachi arrived at the scene with some vigilante group members and ordered everyone to kneel down. He said his audacity to challenge the police officers led to his being shot in the leg. Garba, however, pleaded with the panel to order the police to pay compensation to him. The matter was adjourned for the report. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more