GOD is a holy God with holy purpose for all. The only means of getting access to Him is by walking in His set path of holiness. Without holiness no one shall see him. He has very good, high and glorious purpose for each life that we can only access by walking in the path of separation which is the desire and demand on the life of every believer. The only road to the glory and fulfillment of Divine purpose is through the path of separation leading to the blessings of separation. What is Separation?  The Path Of Separation – The Path Of Preparation  The Case Study Of Joseph The path of separation leads to trouble with sinners, jest, ridicule, opposition, persecution, death and resurrection. It is a deliberate choice. Joseph was in Egypt. He landed in Egypt as sold slave. He landed in Egypt without preparing for it. Egypt wasa place of glamour,  power, pride, lust and moral corruption to which Abraham was a victim. But God was with Joseph. (Gen. 39:2). Joseph served in Egypt well and was promoted. The path of separation is a path of faithfulness, righteousness, uprightness in service. Joseph was an agent of blessing to His Master. (Gen.39:45). Joseph was tempted by a woman. He was lied against and defamed. He was sent to prison untried. He was put in the innermost prison yet God was with Him in prison (Gen 39:21). Joseph was taken from prison to palace to minister before Pharaoh. God created the circumstance to bring Joseph to the lime light. (Gen. 41:15,16). The Holy Spirit in Joseph was recognized (Gen.41:38). Joseph was promoted 41:41-45. Joseph maintained a life of separation and discipline in Egypt. Joseph ruled Egypt (v55; 42:6). His brethren bowed to him and Joseph revealed himself to his brethren who bowed.His father also bowed before him. Joseph did not return to Canaan, they all went to him in Egypt. This is fulfillment of his dream which they had wanted to abort by selling him off.  God’s perfect way, will for man’s life is a life of separation without which we can reach divine goal and standard. There are blessings of separation. When the Lord enjoined us to be separated from the world system, it is because of his love for us. Only a separated soul will fulfill destiny and purpose for which he is created. This calls for dedication and devotion; it calls for discipline and consecration; it calls for the transformation in the renewal of our mind to do that which is reasonable, acceptable and perfect will of God. Beloved this may seems difficult but let me assure you it is not impossible to attain. All you need is to give your life to Jesus Christ. Let him be the saviour and Lord over your life. Then like Joseph you will have his favour and the Lord will be with you so that that your ugly life is refined and re-moulded unto a life of celebration. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.