In the run-up to the forthcoming 2023 general election, the Trade Union Congress and the Nigeria Labour Congress have both emphasised the need to change the narrative in the Nigerian political space through sensitising and conscientising their members of their rights. CHRISTIAN APPOLOS looks at the merits of the efforts of both unions, in view of the series of political programmes organised by them. The Trade Unions Congress of Nigeria (TUC), at its political roundtable held in Abuja on Thursday, March 10, 2022, sent a laudable electoral political participation awareness and awakening message to its members across the country and to Nigerians at large. Glaringly, the duo of TUC and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) are seeking to use the power of numbers, which they have in millions, to make inroads into the country’s political space. Of course, the end product would be to be able to negotiate for the provision of better welfare and socio-economic policies for their members and Nigerian citizens by extension. But considering the timing of the 2023 elections, the peculiarities of politics and how sophisticated politicians in Nigeria are, some are of the opinion that TUC and NLC, that suddenly decided to establish themselves as strong players in the country’s political sphere, woke up too late. Some people also asked if the gathering of people to talk about interest in politics will do the magic. And the response from the Political Commission Chairman of TUC, Comrade Ayodele Olorunfemi, is that the event was “part of the Political Education Programmes (PEPs) of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria to raise political consciousness of members of the Congress in particular and Nigerian workers and masses in general. “We must get our permanent voter cards and participate in all electoral processes that will lead us to the desired destination.” Also responding to the thought of the quest coming too late, the President of TUC, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, said, “It is better now than never.” He went on to say, “Though this meeting is coming a bit late, like the Chinese proverb says ‘The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago. The next best time is now.’ It is better late than never. So, my comrades, I am glad that people of common interest and values are here today for a common goal. Our aim is to work together to provide a platform to change the leadership recruitment process in Nigeria. We must ensure that credible leaders with great potential and great vision emerge to lead at various levels if we conscientiously want to change the narrative. A people united can never be defeated! We must not derail again. Never again!” Olaleye further said, “We have not successfully tapped into the opportunity provided in a liberal democracy which emphasises grassroots participation and negotiation of interests. Staying aloof would further worsen the situation as there is no dividing line between politics and economy. “The principles and features of democracy are constant. They have not changed. It is all about numbers and we have it. Some have said it is about mobilising the grassroots and we equally have people at the grassroots that can do that. We will mobilise our members in millions. “We are better equipped to provide genuine change and the political leadership alternative the Nigerian masses deserve for transformative governance. We are capable of enthroning social democracy in Nigeria that would make governance beneficial to the people. “The reason for the incessant labour agitations either in form of street protest or strike action is because labour is not involved in the policy making process,” Olaleye said. On the foregoing, the TUC Political Commission Chairman, Ayodele Olorunfemi, said that the driving force of the Congress in quest is that it “resolved not to be onlookers and spectators in the Nigerian democratic and governance matters, but to play active role in the emergence of credible leaders at all levels and formulation and implementation of government policies and programmes aimed at bringing about transformative governance and social justice.” He went on to say. “Organised labour and workers have to be actively involved in matters that determine their welfare, wellness and wellbeing. Nigerian workers must come to the realisation that participation in politics is required to ensure that those who emerge as our leaders are transformational leaders and not transactional leaders. “Organised labour had historically played major roles in the independent and democratic Nigeria but has not effectively participated in the political contestation for power, thereby leaving the stage for individuals who were part of the initial ruling class that made the country undemocratic. “Workers have for so long, especially since the advent of the fourth Republic in 1999, been victims of bad governance at all levels. Successive political ruling class has continued to deny workers basic and fundamental rights. Workers have to agitate for every right before getting attention. Minimum wage for example, has always been an issue of contention between government at all levels and organised labour, whereas, sensitive and responsible governments in other climes do not wait for workers to protest on the streets before embarking on wage review in line with market forces/cost of living. “Most Nigerian workers and citizens that supposed to initiate and implement economic and technological development programmes have been forced into modern day slavery in form of brain drain and search for greener pasture in other parts of the world against their wishes and to the detriment of our country Nigeria. “Nigeria is bleeding in all ramifications and Nigerian workers must arise to rescue her. Effective, visionary and transformational leadership is required to address insecurity, mass unemployment, poverty, infrastructural deficits, poor working conditions, corruption, social exclusion, etc, evidenced in every fabric of the Nigerian society today. It is time to get involved and enthrone social democracy where governance will be of the people, by the people and for the people. “I urge us all to use this as a way forward for a working people political alternative to leadership recruitment and governance processes in Nigeria using the 2023 general elections as a test case. Great Nigerian workers, Yes, we can! Let us commence the process of organising and mobilising Nigerian workers and critical masses towards this mission,” Olorunfemi said. At different fora, the leadership of NLC and TUC have always said that Nigerian citizens should not stay aloof and docile to government policies and actions that bring sufferings and increase hardship. They have always urged the citizens to rather join the organised labour in speaking out and protesting against the ill policies of the government for the common good of all. For the record, the organised labour’s statutory responsibilities are to their members. Therefore, it won’t be wrong for one to say that the rest of Nigerians must stop depending on NLC and TUC to demand for their rights and as well speak for them. It would rather be of a greater good and productive for the entire citizens to join in demand for better policies and their implementation, and as well for good governance in general. To this end, the question for TUC and NLC is; are you prepared to achieve success in this quest or…? And for Nigerian citizens, would you remain aloof and docile? ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity