A herb seller, Bonny Imoisili has been dragged before an Ondo Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ondo town for allegedly defrauding a trader of the sum of N378,000 in Ondo town, headquarters of Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. The accused was alleged to have committed the offence on October 1, 2021, at about 2 pm at UBA bank Yaba, by collecting the money from one Sola Kokumo and pretending to be one of his customers. According to the Police prosecutor, Supol Iyabo Omolara, who explained that the offences were contrary to Sections 390 (9), 419 of the Criminal Code Cap 37 Vol.1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006, while the defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. Explaining how he was defrauded, the complainant told the court that Imoisili came to his shop to advertise herbs while he was on a phone conversation with one of his customers. He, however, said, “I was busy talking to my customers on phone and I didn’t know that he was eavesdropping to the phone conversation in which I dictated my phone number to my customer. My customers in the village can only call me because of the network over there. “The defendant called me in the night and said he was the one that sold palm oil to me and promised to send account details as discussed. ”Later, he sent the account details and I forwarded the money to him. The following day, the original customer called and said he would send his account details to me and I was surprised when he told me that he never forwarded his account to me, while I have paid into the said account. “My customer denied sending any account details to me and immediately, I went to the Enu- Owa police station to report, after which the defendant was arrested.” The Presiding Magistrate, Mrs Toyin Olowookere, however, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N300,000 with one surety in like sum while the case was adjourned to April 12, 2022, for commencement of trial. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Herb seller docked  Herb seller docked Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Herb seller docked  Herb seller docked ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details