No fewer than 45 inmates of the Kaduna Correctional Centre have undergone a two-day skills acquisition on various trades, organised by the National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM). The Skills acquisition programme which took place at the Central Correctional Centre, Kaduna, with its theme, ‘Life outside the Walls’, include Slippers Making, Petroleum jelly making, Mat making, Gele and Turban Making, Liquid Soap Making among others. In his remarks, Director General of NCMM, Abba Isa Tijani, said the programme was conceived with the intention of starting a reintegration process for inmates into the larger society upon completion of their jail terms in the correctional centres. The DG who was represented by the Acting Director, Educational services And training, Mrs Omowumi Omopemi Elizabeth, added that it is also intended to provide them with skills to make them self-reliant and possibly not to return to ways of life that got them into this present predicament. He said: “This is the third of the three training sessions, having done the first in Ikoyi, the second in Enugu and the final training now in Kaduna. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The National Commission for Museums and Monuments is an agency of the Federal Government, charged with the responsibility of collecting, preserving and promoting the rich and diverse cultural and natural heritage that abounds in our Nation. “While carrying out these duties, we feel challenged to help in providing Vocational skills to Citizens, especially Inmates, widows, youths, women societies and a host others.” Tijani noted that it is their strong belief that there should always be a second chance to live while emploring the selected inmates to grab the opportunity with both hands by paying attention so as to grasp the details of the training to make good use of the skills learnt upon their freedom. Speaking at the event, the Comptroller of Correctional, Kaduna, CC Umar Audu, commended the commission for trying to make lives better for the inmates aside from the walls. He, therefore, called on the inmates to make the best use of the skills, and not allow such knowledge to go in vain. An inmate identified as Oyewole Kelvin said he feels completed, irrespective of the years used in the centre. “I learnt Mat Making and Petroleum jelly making. I believe that the knowledge that has been impacted on me, I will be able to fend for myself when I leave this place.” Another female inmate identified as Agatha Bala, said “I feel empowered. it was actually a nice programme. We thank the Commission for remembering us, it shows that they have us in mind.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NCMM trains 45 inmates in Kaduna correctional centre on skills acquisition Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa NCMM trains 45 inmates in Kaduna correctional centre on skills acquisition ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity