President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday, announced that the Bank of Industry (BOI) has created over nine million jobs in the last seven years as well as disbursing over N1.24 trillion to 4.2 million beneficiaries in Micro, Small, Medium and Large enterprises. The President has, therefore, commended the bank for the feat, affirming that the Bank has continued to successfully execute its mandate as a policy institution of the Federal Government, extending single-digit interest rate loans to manufacturers. He made the assertion while speaking at the commissioning of the Second Tower of BOI building, in Abuja. Commending the management of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and BOI for their contributions to the economic development of the country and the wellbeing of Nigerians, the President said: “In order to further enhance its capacity to impact the industrial sector on a transformational scale, I approved the issuance of a sovereign guarantee to help the Bank raise funds in the Eurobond market. ‘‘I am glad to note that the Bank has recently completed the transaction by raising 750 million Euros from international investors. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The proceeds of this Eurobond will be disbursed to Large, Medium & Small Enterprises, and women entrepreneurs with bankable projects. ‘‘It is commendable that the Bank sources its own funds for lending based on its investment-grade ratings by the rating agencies.” President Buhari, therefore, urged the management of the Bank to ensure that its impact is felt all over the country. On the new building, the President said he was “particularly impressed that this world-class building was financed from Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the Bank. “The building represents the Bank’s contribution to the growing list of work-related infrastructure in the Federal Capital Territory. It is another remarkable milestone in the Bank’s growth.” Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment thanked the President for the confidence reposed in the bank, appointing it partner in several laudable projects which have helped in poverty reduction, job creation and sustenance of indigenous enterprises. He also lauded the President for approving the sovereign guarantee for the BOI’s maiden 50 million Euro-Bond issues which was successfully concluded in February this year. He added that the feat represents BOI’s first Euro-Bond denominated transactions from Nigeria, which will create a benchmark for other prospective issuance from Africa. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Bank of Industry creates 9 million jobs in 7 years ― Buhari ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details