A university don, at the Dominican University (DU), Samonda, Ibadan, Professor Jude Mbukanma has lamented the long lost of strong morals, patriotism, uprightness, diligence, contentment, and reward for hardwork in the country. He said that the restoration of these values would go a long way in tackling the myriad of challenges confronting the nation. The Professor of Ethics and Philosophy of Religious Studies stated this while delivering the  inaugural lecture of the university with the theme, “The Abandonment of Moral Science In The Pursuit of Natural Science Education; The Great Mistake In The Theory of Modernisation.” Professor Mbukanma stated that “a situation in our educational system where moral science was relegated, and the study of natural science is celebrated will always lead to churning out of products that are morally bankrupt.” He said Nigerians and leaders at various levels of government must embrace the virtues of patriotism and love to lift the country above its many woes. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is therefore important for subjects of moral science which teaches strong virtues such as love, diligence, truthfulness, contentment, patriotism, among others, to be introduced into the country’s educational curriculum and taught from primary school,” he said. On the dwindling academic standard in the nation, the don said that the rot being witnessed in the education sector today is as a result of the absence of strong values such as patriotism, commitment, diligence, among others. Speaking at the event, the vice chancellor of the university, Professor Anthony Alaba Akinwale, expressed the joy of having a lecturer in the university to deliver the first inaugural lecture. “It is very imperative to be reminded that the lecture of today challenges us to ensure that we do not separate politics from morality; and if separated, our challenges in the country will remain insurmountable,” the VC said. Other dignitaries at the event included the Dean of Science, Dominican University, Professor Domingo Okorie; the acting Librarian, DU, Mrs Blessing Mbah; Professor Rev Kenneth Nkadi, Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, and Mr Mutiu Agboke, among others. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details