Edo State Government, on Thursday, announced place to promote freedom of speech in the state by initiating moves to abolish the laws of sedition and criminal defamation to entrench freedom of speech needed by media practitioners in line with the laws of the land. Governor Godwin Obaseki made the disclosure in the keynote address he delivered at the maiden Radio Nigeria, Bronze FM, Benin, inaugural lecture and award with the theme “Deepening democracy; role of the media.” The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Andrew Emwanta, said: “Last Wednesday the Edo State Executive Council considered and approved five Executive Bills for onward transmission to the Edo State House of Assembly for legislative action. One of the Bills is the Edo State Criminal Law 2022 Bill. “Under the proposed law, the provisions on Sedition and Criminal Defamation were taken out in line with decisions of appellate courts, which aligns with constitutional provisions on the right to freedom of expression and the press.” In his remarks, the Chairman of the event and the National President of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Comrade Chris Isiguzo, charged the media to help Nigerians to choose the right candidates ahead of the 2023 general elections in the country. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to the NUJ President, “Without the media, there is no democracy. We normally say the judiciary is the last hope of the common man but the current reality is that the media is now the last hope of the common man. “The media must be alive to its role as we move forward to the 2023 election. Virtually every state today has a presidential aspirant but the media must bring these characters to the people and help them decide the right people.” While contributing to the lead paper which was delivered by Mrs Yemi Kolapo, the National President of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists, NAWOJ) Ladi Bala, regretted the non-passage of women related aspects of the reviewed Constitution by the National Assembly. In her welcome address, the General Manager of the station, Mrs Abimbola Oyetunde said the lecture series was instituted to impact more stations’ immediate environment and the larger society. Edo govt promotes freedom of speech, abolishes sedition, criminal defamation laws ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.