A former Nigeria’s Ambassador to Germany and ex-Minister of Education, Professor Tunde Adeniran, has knocked President Muhammadu Buhari for requesting the National Assembly to delete Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act and further amend the law. In an exclusive interview with Tribune Online, Adeniran said the concerns raised by Buhari to justify the request were self-serving and not in national interest. “The concerns raised were neither for the advancement of core principles of democracy nor in the national interest. It was a self-seeking and self-serving concern that could give undue advantage to some participants in the electoral process. “On this issue, the Senators honourably upheld the popular views of the Nigerian people on the matter and added some granite to democratic consolidation,” he said. Also, a former Senate president, Bukola Saraki, said Buhari was motivated by selfish considerations in the request. Speaking to reporters during a meeting between National Youth leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Muhammad Suleiman and zonal/state youth leaders of the party in Abuja, on Saturday, the former Kwara State governor maintained that government appointees should not be allowed to use their offices to influence election outcomes. He said he disagreed with President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to delete Section 14 (12) of the Act targeting such political appointees. When asked whether he agreed with the president on the over to remove the provision, Saraki said: “I disagree with that. I mean, why should someone be in political office use the influence of political office to contest? “We talked about the participation of youths? What chance does young Nigeria have to contest with somebody who’s sitting in public office; has access to power by influence; has access to funds of government? “If you want to contest, for heaven’s sake, go out, resign and go and contest? Why would you stay in political office? It’s even wrong for us to be debating it. It is so selfish. If you truly want to represent this country, why do you have to remain in political office? Step out and contest. “And if we are talking about youths, we’re talking about people having an opportunity. What chance does a 25-year-old young man or woman have against somebody who’s a director in a government agency? We should not encourage things like that. What we should do is let us ensure more people come out,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more