Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike has charged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) recognise the contributions of the South-South geopolitical zone to the success of the party and therefore treat the zone with fairness, justice and equity. The governor noted that having consistently voted for the PDP since 1999, the party cannot at this crucial moment ignore the South-South’s contributions to its successes. Wike made the demand during the meeting of PDP stakeholders in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on Monday. He declared; “The South-South is the pillar of the PDP. If the South-South is the pillar of the PDP, they must be treated with fairness, justice and equity. It is not only when it comes to working, it is not only when it comes to giving votes, that we will all remember that the South-South is the pillar. When it also comes in terms of sharing, they should remember that this is the pillar of the party.” Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Governor Wike charged his colleagues, National Assembly members and other stakeholders from the South-South zone to set aside their differences in the overall interest of the PDP. “We have all said that Nigerians are waiting for PDP to take over in 2023. That is true. But we cannot take over if we are not united. We cannot take over if we don’t work together.” The Rivers state governor stressed that the only way PDP could wrest political power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government in 2023 is for it to remain united. He said Nigerians are already disenchanted with the APC led Federal Government that has through its anti-people economic policies inflicted hardship on the masses. According to the governor, APC’s poor governance is clearly manifest in widespread poverty in Nigeria, insecurity, poor electricity supply, scarcity of petroleum products. “It is for us to put our house together and make Nigerians proud. Because if we don’t take over in 2023, Nigerians will never forgive PDP. All the opportunity abounds and so we must take this opportunity and make Nigerians happy.” The governor said PDP has realised its past mistakes, and when given another opportunity will not take Nigerians for granted as the ruling APC is doing today. “Now that Nigerians have opened the door for us, we must make Nigerians happy. This (APC) government is a government of excuses. Every morning, one excuse. Every afternoon, one excuse, and in the night, one excuse. I’ve never seen a party that makes a promise without fulfilling the promise.” Governor Wike said the Federal Government declared that it has deleted Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act smacks of corruption. Present at the meeting were Governors, Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom; Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta); Douye Diri (Bayelsa). Other dignitaries in attendance included PDP national vice-chairman (South-South), Chief Dan Orbih; Senator George Sekibo; House of Reps Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu; former Deputy Speaker House of Reps, Austin Opara; former governors of Cross River and Rivers states, Senator Liyel Imoke and Sir Celestine Omehia. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details