The Theater Commander, Joint Task Force, North East (Operation Hadin Kai), Major General Christopher Musa, has said that over 50,000 Boko Haram insurgents have surrendered to troops in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States. The commander stated this on Friday during an interactive session with journalists at the Conference Hall of the Theater Command Headquarters at Maimalari Cantonment in Maiduguri. He added that 20,000 victims of Boko Haram captivity have been rescued by the troops in the North East. Reaffirming the commitment of Nigerian military to end the war against Boko Haram insurgency and restore permanent peace in the region by the end of 2022. He also disclosed that the theater has introduced a new strategic and operational measures, tagged ,”Operation Desert Sanity” and “Operation Lake Sanity”, which was fully to deliberately to clear off the Sambisa Forest of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and ISWAP members in the axis including the Lake Chad Basin fringes and off shores along the Lake. He added that despite operational challenges, the officers and men of the Army are ever ready, capable, energetic and committed to end the war this year 2022. “Troops have been deployed to various military formations and presently carrying operations across the Sambisa forest which surrounds areas like Alagarnu, Timbuktu, Damboa, Maiduguri, Tumbuk off shores among others,” he said. According to him, “the current operational activities with the employment of the new techniques and strategies were successful and results oriented as hundreds of thousands of the insurgents and ISWAP members were arrested, killed and interrogated which has given room to the present high rate of voluntary surrender and emerging peace being enjoyed by the people which is the mandate of the military to restore peace in the north east,” he added. General Musa noted further that the theater Command is making concerted effort to partner with the NGOs, Government organizations and all relevant authorities to ensure disarmament, deradicalization, rehabilitation and reintegration of the women, youths and children that surrendered voluntarily or have been rescued by the military during various operations across the Sambisa Forest. He also promised to maintain the tempo on holding regular interactive session with the Maiduguri based journalists to acquaint them with happenings within the theater Command. The Chairman, Correspondents Chapel of NUJ Maiduguri, Haruna Dauda Biu thanked the Theater Commander, JTF Operation Hadin Kai, Major General Christopher G Musa for his cooperation and understanding with the media since his assumption of office while appreciating the efforts, sacrifices and of the frontline troops. He also urged the Theater Commander to continue to parley with the working journalists covering the theater and military activities to rub minds and discuss issues bordering each other’s operations in the interest of peace, unity stability and integrity if the nation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details