Kaduna State police command on Wednesday said it has recovered another Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in some parts of Kaduna. Findings gathered that the recent development was coming barely 48 hours after an explosion at Dorino Hotel in Kabala West and a discovery of IED at a beer parlour located at Nnamdi Azikwe Expressway, Bye-pass, Kaduna. In a statement issued in Kaduna, the Police image-maker, Muhammad Jalige, noted that the explosive was discovered in Romi ward of Chikun local government area of the state. He said immediately the police received the report, the Commissioner of Police, Mudasir Abdullahi, deployed bomb experts to the scene and the explosive waw successfully detonated. “The area is now safe. We have advised residents in the area as well as other parts of the state to be vigilant on planted devices by enemies of the state at public schools, markets, health centres,” he said. According to the spokesman, investigations are ongoing and those involved would be apprehended and brought to face the wrath of the law. He assured that the police will not relent in its efforts of providing adequate security, advising residents to come forward and report any suspicious moment in their respective localities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.