The National Assembly has been called upon to make laws that will enable financial advisors and experts to scrutinize and approve all financial donations or commitments of the federal government to other nations. The Coalition of Southern and Middle Belt Youth Leaders Assembly (COSMBYLA), the umbrella body of all the youth groups in the South East, South-South, South West and Middle Belt regions made this call in a press release at the weekend. Reacting to the donation of $1 million to Afghanistan, at a time the Nigerian economy is in financial comatose, the youth said “We call on the National Assembly to immediately make a law that will bring on board eminent financial advisors and experts that will scrutinize and approve every financial donation or commitment of the federal government to other nations to avoid a situation where the commonwealth of our country will be donated to other nations on the altar of religious affiliation or friendship.” According to them, the donation was coming when Nigeria “can barely execute any single project or pay mere salaries and pensions without borrowing to do so. This is gross insensitivity and financial recklessness on the part of the Federal Government to make such a donation at a time like this. We are totally disappointed, to say the least. “The donation as we were told by the Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Hissein Ibrahim Taha, was for easing the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan and to help in catering for the needs of millions of Afghan people including women and children.” They asked the federal government to state how much it has donated to the Internally Displaced Persons in Benue State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.