The new Area Commander posted to Iyaganku in Oyo State Police Command, ACP Abiodun Onuoha has said that the police need information from everyone in the society, including journalists, to be able to curb crime effectively. The Area Commander stated this on Wednesday during a familiarisation visit to the management staff of African Newspapers of Nigeria (ANN Plc), publishers of the Tribune titles. The visit, according to him, was to intimate them of his assumption of duty in the area command and express the need for synergy with the media organisation to expose criminals through information, education and publications. “We want journalists to see us the way we are, not just sensationalism. They should always ask us about things that have happened and we will tell them the position which they will project well,” he said. Onuoha expressed gratitude to members of the fourth estate of the realm, adding that he was at the Tribune House to synergise with the management and staff.  He also expressed the hope to have a robust working relationship with the oldest surviving newspaper in Nigeria. On crime spots in his area command, Onuoha, who noted that crimes occur differently in all areas, and are usually addressed according to their peculiarities at such places, said that patrol teams from Area Commands and divisions under it, as well as other specialised units, had always been on 24-hour patrol to curb the rate. Saying that it had been acknowledged universally that there had been no society without crime, the Area Commander stated: “In our own capacity, we make sure that we are proactive on the types of crime experienced or expected. In his remarks when responding, the Tribune’s Chief Internal Auditor, Mr Peculiar Adegbite, who represented the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, assured the Area Commander of all the necessary support needed by him from the media organisation. Mr Adegbite described the Nigerian Tribune as an institution and of an international brand, to which the Cable Network News (CNN) attested twice in 2021. The CIA also solicited partnership through police patronage in terms of placing advertisements in Tribune titles for publication to make to solidify a symbiotic relationship. He thereafter presented the maiden copy of the Nigerian Tribune published on November 16, 1949, to the Area Commander as a souvenir. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity