The sit-at-home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), to press home release of their leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, from Nigeria detention, on Monday, recorded as usual in Anambra state. Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State, has ordered all public servants in the state to always report to work on Mondays, like other weekdays or risk sanction. Since the resumption of trial of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the group had earlier called for a shutdown of businesses on Mondays, but later rescinded it. Despite the rescinding of the decision by the agitated group, there have been fear of attacks on those who go to work, leading to continued stay at home every Monday in Eastern states of Nigeria. In some parts of the state, Saturdays have been adopted as working days, including schools and banks as a replacement for Monday. But in a move to return Monday to normal working days, governor Soludo on Monday through the Head of Service, Barr. Theodora Igwegbe ordered workers to always ensure they are at their duty posts on Mondays. In a circular dated today 25th March 2022, which was signed by the Head of Service, Barrister Theodora Igwegbe and sighted b by Nigerian Tribune, Soludo warned that absence from work on Mondays will attract sanctions. Part of the memo read: “Following the need to reposition the service for better performance and productivity, His Excellency, the governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has directed that henceforth, all public servants should report at their places of work every Monday as every other weekdays. “Consequently, absence from work on Monday, or any other workday without any approval will be viewed as serious misconduct, which will attract appropriate sanctions. This directive takes immediate effect,” the memo read. Soludo had last year lamented the continued boycott of work on Mondays in the South East, saying that the zone loses an estimated N19.6billion every Monday. During his inaugural speech as governor, last two weeks, Soludo had extended an olive branch to all armed groups, saying he was ready to engage them in a round table discussion. He lamented that many criminals now hide under freedom fighting to perpetuate criminality. But Nigerian Tribune Correspondent who visited the IPOB stronghold and major cities in the state, Onitsha, Nnewi, Ihiala and Ekwuloba to ascertain the situation, gathered that shops at the major markets were under lock and key while attach shops in residential buildings opens for business for people living within. In Awka, the state capital, residents, especially, Civil Servants partially complied with the IPOB order. All the commercial banks are also under lock and key. Why some filling stations open other close. There are human and vehicular movement in Awka as well A Civil Servant at the State Secretariat, who does not want to be mention in print, told our correspondent that the only Civil Servants that obey governor Chukwuma Soludo’s order, are those residing within the state capital (Awka). My co-workers that resides in Agulu, Neni, Nnewi, Onitsha, Ekwulobia, even from Enugu, a one hour drive to Awka, did not come to work today. They did not come to work because of the threat note issue by the leadership of IPOB in reaction to Soludo’s order. They are afraid, because of the indescriminate manner, the IPOB boys killed people without government compensation to the deceased families. As I am responding to you now, I am afraid because, no security presence here at the Secretariat. The governor just gave the order without providing security for the workers. I advised the governor to use his global experience to react out to the Federal Government to release their leader. Before he (Soludo), came on board, his predessesor, Willie Obiano, Imo governor, Hope Uzodinma, governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi state, governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and Abia State governor, Dr. Ikezie Ikpazue, have given similar order still it does not work. So I advised him to mediate between the Federal Government and the IPOB authority to end the societal threats, she summited. Reacting on the development, the state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress NLC, Comrade Humphrey Nwafor, in a telephone interview with Nigerian Tribune, said the position of state leadership of NLC, in this issue is that once government provides security, transport and other logistics that will guarantee the safety of workers then workers should as usual be in their duty post. The truth remains that Government and IPOB should dialogue over this issue as promised by His Excellency, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo. He appealed to the Federal Government to hesting Nnamdi Kanu trial in order to dust out tension and innocent killings in South eastern Nigeria.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details