Worried by the frequent cases of collapsed buildings, fire incidents, among others and liabilities associated with such in the state, Lagos State government on Monday said it would collaborate with insurance companies to ensure safety and in the event of liabilities, pay compensations to the persons concerned. The state government, however, said to achieve this, a mandatory insurance digital solution platform would be introduced for all property owners in line with the Federal Government Insurance Act. Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC), Mr Lanre Omojola and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nigerian Insurance Association (NIA), Mrs Yetunde Ilori, made this known during a press briefing with took place at the Bagaulda Press Centre, Alausa, Ikeja, reiterating the need for the people to imbibe insurance culture. Omojola, while noting that safety is everybody’s responsibility, assured that the state government led by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu would continue to step up its responsibility at ensuring that safety was guaranteed across the state. The LSSC boss posited that accidents would still occur no matter the amount of efforts put in to prevent them, however, said such was the reason the state government was engaging and educating the public to ensure they embrace insurance and also ensure its sustainability. “Safety is everybody’s responsibility yet Lagos State Goverment under the leadership of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu will continue to step up its responsibility at ensuring that there is safety across the state.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “No amount of efforts to prevent accidents, it will still occur. That is why insurance comes in; that is why we are engaging and educating the public to ensure its sustainability. “Our role is to ensure that there is enforcement but we are starting with engagement. We are partnering all the insurance companies in provision of digital solution platform for insurance cover,” he said. Also speaking, the CEO of Nigerian Insurance Association (NIA), Mrs. Ilori, appreciated the efforts of the Lagos State government in leading the way, saying that the association under her would ensure that all arms of insurance companies key into the initiative. “We appreciate the work being done by the state goverment to ensure that all is well. The state has always been at the forefront and others follow,” adding that “we will ensure that all arms of insurance companies key into it. We have four committees to ensure that the process is successful,” she said. Ilori, while noting that the purpose of insurance was not for revenue generation, explained that no amount of premium would be too much to pay as insurance cover, adding that the essence of the digital solution platform was to have a hitch-free exercise that would be transparent, devoid of touts and other shoddy activities. According to her, the first stage is to create awareness as many do not imbibe culture of insurance, saying after engagement and education, the next stage would be to enforce the law. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details