THE National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved the upgrade of Shehu Shagari College of Education Sokoto, to University Education. Executive Secretary of NUC, Professor Abubakar Adamu Rasheed, presented the Letter of Recognition of the University, Shehu Shagari University of Education, Sokoto, to the State Governor, Rt Hon. Aminu Tambuwal at a brief ceremony on Monday in Abuja. The recognition of the University brings the number of State Universities to the 58th State and the 206th University in Nigeria. Rasheed said the establishment of Shehu Shagari University was also unique as the first University of Education in northern Nigeria and 4th of its kind in the country. He said the recognition of the University was based on the presentation of relevant documents, including the Law Establishing the University of Education as passed by State House Assembly and Academic Brief among others, by the State Governor to the Commission. Responding, the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, said the establishment of the University was to bridge the gap in the provision of quality teachers and manpower needs in the state and indeed the country. He said the University would accordingly be entrepreneurship based to the extent that those who pass through the system would be looking for jobs in line with the determination of the state to provide functional and effective for people. “The University will help in empowerment and human capital development of the people of Sokoto State,” he said. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for first appointing Adamu Rasheed as Executive Secretary of NUC, and renewal of his tenure for another five years, which according to him was an eloquent testimony of the good work Rasheed is doing at the Commission. He assured NUC that the State Government would abide by all the rules of establishing a Public University in Nigeria, adding that the University already passed recommendations of upgrade before the Sokoto State House of Assembly. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details