There are instances when you get left wondering what to do next in your crypto account the moment you have noticed some suspicious activities. If you are wondering what the right thing to do is, you may want to learn how you can best handle the situation at hand. Here are some handy ideas that you may want to consider. With this particular matter, protecting crypto accounts requires knowledge and a deeper understanding of cryptocurrencies; many credible websites can be helpful and can provide you with the latest crypto news like The Big Short movie. It can guide you on your crypto journey. Report the unusual activity to a technical specialist So you have noticed that your account has been accessed by someone else. You have checked the activity logs, and you have seen something suspicious. Although nothing has been deducted from your crypto wallet, you are worried that someone else may have discovered your account information, such as your username and password. Unless you have some problem with your memory, it would be best to assume that the account has been hacked at least until your theory has been proven wrong by experts. You might have taken note of the hotline in case of emergency, so you already got the number on your directory ready. By this time, you have already composed yourself to talk to the technical specialist. There is a need to narrate all that you can remember down to the pertinent details. It would help shed light on the investigation that will ensue thereafter. Your cooperation will be badly needed in this situation, so you will need to keep your line open.  Rest assured that there are protocols in place as soon as you have reported the unusual activity. Immediate remedies would be in place so as not to further compromise your account. You may be advised to change your password to be able to prevent another unauthorised access. And you will have to do as you are told this time around. This is the moment when you have to observe obedience.  Monitor updates from time to time to see progress  It is not enough to report the suspicious activity since it may happen again. This is why you have to monitor updates in the investigation conducted by the administrator of the crypto exchange. If you have not received any updates, you may opt to make a move instead. It would not hurt to call the hotline to know what happened in the investigation. You will need the result to know the reason why the suspicious activity appeared in your logs. This will also give you a proper closure so as not to be bothered further by what happened. Know that the crypto trading platform has an obligation to explain why the suspicious activity has transpired in the first place. The client has the right to know whether there have been lapses in the system that need to be addressed. It will also give you the assurance that the problem has been fixed so this will not happen again. Without this assurance, you will never get rid of the cloud of doubt hanging over your head. By all means, you can make a request to expedite the investigation. Time is of the essence, especially when you have got a huge amount of investment at risk. Your crypto account may not have been covered by an insurance policy in case of cyberattacks. This is why you should be mindful of any unusual activity. After all, you cannot afford to lose your hard-earned money. Assess whether you need to relay this to authorities There might be a need to escalate your concern to the authorities. Whether you need to do so, you will have to assess how well the crypto exchange has handled the situation. You may not need to report the incident to the law enforcement agency if your issues and concerns have been resolved properly. Otherwise, you will have to take another step in addressing what has transpired. It would help if you could review the policy of the crypto trading platform when it comes to reporting incidents for investigation. You should take note of the response time to know whether they have acted on the complaint promptly. This will also give you an idea of whether the technical team is competent enough to resolve the problem. The authorities may need to provide further assistance to take care of the incident. Some crypto exchanges will also initiate the action of reporting the incident to the police. At least the authorities can issue a warning to the public about a possible modus operandi undertaken by some scrupulous criminal elements online. There is a good chance to prevent further attacks on other platforms. It is also an opportunity to impose some more layers of protection in crypto exchanges. See if there is any possible legal remedy available. Do not worry. There is still hope for some other legal remedy. If there has been negligence involved on the part of the crypto exchange, you can always file a suit for damages. This will not happen if the platform has given sufficient assistance in resolving the problem in the first place. After all, damage control has to be done as soon as the incident has been reported. The administrator cannot afford to waste time in administering the proper procedures. It is noteworthy that when a crypto exchange has been hacked by some cybercriminals, the clients are reimbursed for the amount missing in their crypto wallets. The platform has taken the responsibility of providing compensation to the aggrieved parties without going through a court battle. At least there was less hassle involved in the process. There was also an instance when a crypto network appealed to cyber hackers to return the funds taken as loot. It was a request which also hinted at a warning that the hackers would eventually get caught anyway. Fair enough, the funds were returned to the system gradually through some identified accounts. Conclusion These are only some of the actions that you may take when there is something suspicious in your crypto account. You can report it to the crypto exchange admin, monitor the progress, assess if there is a need to get the authorities involved or seek any legal remedy. Nonetheless, you should bear in mind that preventive measures will have to be undertaken to manage the risks in crypto trading. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details