A mixology competition, organised by Bord Bia, the Irish food board, for its Irish Mixologist Club, has produced a star winner and ultimate mixologist, Olanrewaju Babatunde. The grand finale of the competition, tagged ‘Naija Irish Mix’, which had the finalists mix their signature cocktail for the grand prize of a trip to Ireland, began with a call to entry phase online, where five outstanding mixologists were selected, amongst all the entries online. The panel of judges, comprising award-winning mixologist, Hady Harmanani, lifestyle enthusiast, Antonia Soares, and founder Circa Lagos, Owolabi Akanimodo, were given the responsibility of selecting the winner based on certain approved criteria, such as the authenticity, technique, taste (mouthfeel) and overall presentation of their cocktails. The winner, Olanrewaju Babatunde, was awarded an all-expense paid trip to Ireland, while Prince Victor, the first runner up, went home with a weekend stay at the prestigious Eko Hotel. Congratulating the winners, the West Africa Manager, Bord Bia, Ese Okpomo, explained that the event was organised by the Irish Food Board, as a way of commemorating St. Patrick’s Day and celebrating the rich Irish culture and heritage. Okpomo added that throughout the month of March, Bord Bia would be leveraging global celebrations around St. Patrick’s Day to launch a programme of targeted trade engagements and promotional campaigns across 18 countries. “In Nigeria our own celebration is being marked with a mixologist competition. The Irish Mixologist Club is the first to be held in Nigeria,” she added. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details