Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol is now being unofficially sold at between N195 and N200 per litre in the Ibadan metropolis. A survey conducted by the Nigerian Tribune reveals that lots of fuel stations in Ibadan and adjoining towns have adjusted their metres to read between N195 and N200 per litre depending on the locality. The development has drastically reduced the queue experienced in the past at the various fuel stations in the city. The unofficial increase has resulted in a hike in the price of essential commodities including foodstuffs at various markets in the cities. Also, the intra and inter-state transport fares have witnessed a geometric increase. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In an interview with the Nigerian Tribune, some motorists described the earlier experienced scarcity as the federal government’s deliberate ploy to jerk up the pump price of the PMS nationwide. It will be recalled that the federal government through the NNPC had earlier muted the increase in the pump price of PMS but was resisted by the stakeholders. It was after the failure of the initial plan, that the federal government blamed the scarcity of PMS nationwide on the importation of adulterated fuel. However, the motorists faulted the argument of the government and its relevant agencies, describing the scarcity as a grand plan to drive home an increase plan. The marketers added that motorists and commuters in the town have resigned to fate, especially with an official increase in PMS pump price.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more