A saloon car belonging to the Political Editor of the New Nigerian Newspaper (NNN), Amos Mathew, has been stolen. The black coloured Golf 3 American model with registration number LSD-516-HB was suspected to have been stolen by some political thugs. The stolen vehicle was parked in front of the All Progressives Congress (APC) party secretariat where journalists were invited to cover the declaration of an APC gubernatorial aspirant. Meanwhile, journalists in the state have threatened to boycott future political activities in the state, should relevant authorities fail to recover the vehicle. According to Mr Mathew, the vehicle was parked in front of the party secretariat at exactly 10:00 am and was discovered to have been stolen at the end of political events by unidentified political thugs at exactly 11:20 am on Tuesday. He explained that the police and other relevant authorities have been briefed on the ugly development. Other valuable items like ATM card, office identity card, voter card, National Identity Card amongst others were in the stolen vehicle. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details