The First Technical University, Ibadan, has offered all its 12 first-class graduates automatic employment. The vice-chancellor of the institution, Professor Ayobami Salami, made the announcement on Saturday during the maiden convocation of the university. He said: “I hereby announce that all the First Class graduates who are interested in academic pursuits are hereby offered automatic employment immediately after their National Youths Service.” Salami also announced that the university management had secured the support of local and international partners to award postgraduate scholarships to all of those who accept the offer, to enable them to pursue Master’s degree training in the United States of America, as well as “split-site PhD degree programmes.” He enjoined the graduates to be of good character. “You are the first set, the first fruits of our labour and we are unveiling you today as our trailblazers. “I enjoin you to realise that you carry the burden of history on your shoulders as Tech-U’s pioneer graduates. You should, therefore, let excellence and good character be your watchword,” he said. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Professor Salami gave a rundown of the challenges his pioneering team had to surmount to grow the university from scratch, and the achievements attained so far in less than five years of its operation. In academics, he disclosed that Tech-U is currently adjudged the 7th state university in Nigeria on the National Universities Commission’s ranking, and the 27th among all the universities ranked in Nigeria. In the past four years, its academic programmes have also steadily increased from 15 at the commencement of academic operations in 2018 to 30 academic programmes – all approved by the NUC. “I am happy to announce that apart from the Nigeria Police Academy, this is the only university that runs a BSc degree in Forensic Science in Nigeria,” he added. In infrastructure development, Salami noted that Tech-U which started with just two buildings that were donated by the Central Bank of Nigeria at takeoff had been able to add 16 more edifices “built through internally generated revenue and life-saving interventions by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund).” In research and innovation, within two years of its operation, Salami said Tech-U had registered its first patent, and that most of the software used in the university are developed in-house – including the Tech-U E-examination Solution (TEES) which is soon to be commercialized after securing the patent. Salami also disclosed that Tech-U in 2021 was one of the six universities in Nigeria that won the Association of Commonwealth Universities grant on ‘Partnership for Enhanced Blended Learning for West Africa’ (PEBL-WA), and by that had been commissioned to develop the online course on Introduction to Robotic Systems and Engineering for all the universities in West Africa. He congratulated Governor Seyi Makinde for “the more than double blessings that the convocation symbolizes for him” He said, “That Tech-U is coming of age within a short time is one big deal; but that the special scholarship by the local governments in Oyo State which Tech-U enjoys is finally yielding strategic and visible fruits is another wonderful feat.” A total of 63 students graduated during the first convocation, 12 of them with First Class honours, 25 with Second Class upper-division, 24 with Second Class lower division, and two with Third Class. Afonja Mariam Adewumi from the Microbiology Department emerged the overall best graduating student with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 4.91. The Convocation Lecture entitled ‘A Skilled and Knowledgeable Workforce: Key to Sustainable Development in Nigeria’ was delivered by the former executive secretary of the NUC, Emeritus Professor Julius Okojie. The visitor to the university, Governor Seyi Makinde, was represented at the event by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Tech-U offers automatic employment to 12 First Class graduates Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Tech-U offers automatic employment to 12 First Class graduates ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.