The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), on Thursday, commissioned 415 cadets under the basic training Course 1 as full Customs Officers. Speaking during the Passing Out Parade (POP) ceremony at the training college Ikeja, the Zonal Co-ordinator Zone A and Assistant Controller General of Customs, Mrs Modupe Aremu, stated that the cadets were carefully and thoroughly selected out of numerous applicants from different parts of the country through a rigorous and transparent process which is in compliance with the Federal Character Principle as enshrined in Nigeria’s constitution. She added that the cadets all represent the 774 Local governments across the 36 States of the Federation including the FCT. She warned the new officers that any act of indiscipline, disloyalty to the service, including disobedience to constituted authority and insubordination will be decisively dealt with and defaulters shown the way out of the service. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Consequently, she implored the new officers to avail themselves with the provisions of the Public Service Rule, the Customs and Excise Management Act CAP 45 LFN 2004 and the NCS Scheme of Service. The ACG appreciated the Comptroller General of Customs (CGC), Col Hameed Ibrahim All (Rtd), stating that without his support, the training would not have been possible. “It is evident that the CGC is a man of few words but tremendous actions and this is apparent under the 3R mandate which is to Reform, Restructure and Raise Revenue and that is what you are part of today. “We must give credit to the Customs Training College which has for the past three months transformed, tutored and nurtured these cadets that are before us today. “The reports we received from the Commandant on the training and the parade we witnessed today, are evident that these soon to be commissioned officers have been put through the mills and have come out refined and ready to contribute their quota to the NCS efforts at preserving the security of our Nation, facilitating Trade and generating maximum revenue for the Government. ” The Nigeria Customs Service, as you know is involved in Security Operations, Anti Smuggling Activities, Revenue Generation indiscipline. It is a Paramilitary organization that has zero-tolerance for indiscipline and unprofessional conduct. “As a result, any act of indiscipline, disloyalty to the Service, disobedience to constituted authority and insubordination will be decisively dealt with and defaulters shown the way out of the Service. “Consequently, we implore you to avail yourself with the provisions of the Public Service Rule, the Customs and Excise Management Act CAP 45 LFN 2004 and the NC Scheme of Service. “The NCS is strictly guided by these books in its engagements and re-engagement of its personnel. We also need to emphasize that there is an established channel of communication with regards to official matters, correspondences and even expression of grievances. You are to be guided by these channels throughout your career” she said. Speaking also the Customs Training Commandant of the college Controller Mustapha Sariki-Kebbi noted that the POP for 415 cadets was very tasking and challenging because it was compressed to three months instead of the six months the training usually lasts. He added that the drills and academic excellence are a great achievement on the part of the cadets as well as committed and selfless officers men who moulded the cadets from civilian raw materials to regimented Customs officers. He said this was achieved because the officers had the interest of serving in the NCS. He informed that the CGC also ensured that Federal character was applied to the latter by making sure that all the 774 local governments across the country were given 4 slots from level 3, level 4, level 6 and level 8. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Customs commissions 415 support staff cadets Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Customs commissions 415 support staff cadets ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details