The Director-General of NYSC, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim has warned that the Scheme will henceforth prosecute Nigerian graduates who refuse to present themselves for mobilisation for National Service after completion of their studies. This was even as the scheme denied claims that a Corps Member was shot dead by Policemen at Ibadan while returning with his car from the weekly Community Development Service within the metropolis. The DG spoke at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the NYSC and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for the prosecution of its criminal cases. According to him, section 13 Sub Section 1(a) and (b) empowers the Service Corps to prosecute offenders. General Ibrahim who was represented by the Director, Legal Services of the Scheme, Barrister Tijjani Ahmed Ibrahim, disclosed that NYSC has been having challenges in prosecuting some of its cases and expressed confidence that the partnership with the NSCDC will bring this to an end. He assured that the Scheme will live up to its responsibilities as stipulated in the MOU. The NYSC helmsman commended the NSCDC for its steadfast support to the Scheme recalling that it was the Corps that spearheaded the discovery and dismantling of a fake NYSC Camp as well as the successful prosecution of the culprits. In his speech at the event which took place at the NSCDC headquarters in Abuja, the Commandant General of the Corps, Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi assured the NYSC of the readiness of his organisation to assist the Scheme in the pursuit of its mandate. Represented by the Director Legal Services of the Corps, Umar Aliyu Mohammed, the Commandant further promised to ensure that the partnership yields the desired objectives. Meanwhile, no Corps Member was shot in the head or chest and no life was lost during the encounter between some Corps Members and policemen on duty. “The attention of the Management of NYSC has been drawn to the news making rounds in the social Media that a Corps Member was shot dead by Policemen at Ibadan while returning with his car from the weekly Community Development Service within the Ibadan metropolis. “As a matter of fact, the police authorities in Oyo state quickly intervened and the situation was immediately brought under control, and normalcy returned as expected,” she said. It said the Commissioner of Police in Oyo State has authorized an investigation into the matter to ensure that those who erred are reprimanded accordingly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NYSC threatens to prosecute  NYSC threatens to prosecute Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NYSC threatens to prosecute NYSC threatens to prosecute ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team