Yobe State governor and Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Mai Mala Buni, met with ten members of the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under his leadership, on Thursday, at the Yobe State Governor’s Lodge Asokoro, Abuja. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, who was acting Chairman of the team while Governor Buni was away in Dubai led other members of the Committee to the meeting. National Secretary of the CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, was absent. Speaking with newsmen at the end of the meeting, the Yobe State Governor said the focus of their closed-door meeting was on preparations towards the national convention. He assured the party faithful that the March 26 date would not be aborted. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “You know that since I travelled the party has not stopped. His Excellency has done very well in managing the affairs of the party. We are here to discuss the issues going forward. We are now at the finishing line in the preparations for our national convention which is at hand on March 26. We are putting heads together to achieve this task ahead. I want to emphasise that the March 26 national convention is sacrosanct.” On Senator Akpanudoedehe’s absence at the meeting, he said: “You know that this is not a formal meeting of the committee. These members of the CECPC just came to welcome me back to the country and wish me well after returning from a medical trip outside the country. So, it is not a formal meeting that one will ask whether the secretary is here or not. However, he was in the house earlier today.” Also speaking, the Niger State Governor said his team made a lot of progress to ensure a seamless convention while his Yobe State counterpart, Governor Buni was outside the country. “For the past one week, I have been acting as the chairman of CECPC and what I can tell you is that we made lots of progress towards our convention like we saw in the inauguration of the State Chairmen, adopted some of the zoning formula, and some of the decisions of the CECPC taken before he left the country. I can tell you for free that in the last one week, we have ensured that we are good to go for the convention.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity