American music star and artiste PR Steven Paulino popularly known as Nino has unveiled plans about its upcoming music tour in the United States this summer. The music executive and Bub Entertainment record label boss will be collaborating with amazing musicians on the tour, aimed at bringing people together to have fun, while also showcasing the talents of budding artistes on the tour. The date of the event which will see fans from far and near come to catch a glimpse of their favourite artistes will also be revealed soon as well as line up artistes. One of the artist on the tour is 504Yung, a reputable hip-hop artist whose music features a series of heartfelt stories about his life, narrated in a wonderful contrast of thought-provoking lyrics and infectious beats that keep listeners all over the world hooked and primed for more. Another artist on the tour is Long Beach-based singer/producer popularly known as JxSTILL, known for his delivery of late-night vibes, allowing you to feel every bit of vulnerability in his lyrics, in his breaths, and his melodies. He’s currently building relationships behind the scenes and is showing huge promise in the very near future. His recent tracks “Come Thru” and “Not Too Far” have received recognition by award-winning dancers The Future Kingz and Ayo&Teo, who have danced along side Chance the Rapper, DaBaby and many more. Nino who is a LA-based renowned music executive who has mastered the art of illustrating his experiences in art and cultural ways and also aiming to dominate other fields in the entertainment industry. He has continued to use his talents to express his inventiveness in multiple ways and how his music company Bub Entertainment is helping artists find and develop their sound. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details