As part of its plans to celebrate International Women’s Day, the streaming platform, Netflix has rolled a selection of movies that focus on women and their awesomeness. To commemorate the day, with a focus on the exceptional roles women play in holding and building society, Netflix celebrates the diverse achievements of women. With the theme: Break The Bias, Netflix beamed its spotlight on Nollywood movies, especially those that expressed the lofty attributes of women and how they are breaking the bias that has held them down over the years. Netflix released a selection of movies on its platform to mark what it described as the exceptional strength and character of the female gender. With popular movies such as King of Boys, Swallow, Smart Money Women, Lion Heart, including MTV Shuga Naija and even Oloture and Citation, Netflix in a statement made available to Tribune Online on Wednesday maintained that women across the world deserve love and respect. The statement further highlighted Omo Ghetto, Diamond in the Sky, Alter Ego, Ije: The Journey, Nneka The Pretty Serpent as movies that celebrated the strength of women from different walks of life. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more