Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Dr Nureni Adeniran, on Friday, declared to contest as Senator representing Oyo South in the 2023 general election. Adeniran made his intention known when he met with members of the state executive committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Oyo State, led by its Chairman, Mr Dayo Ogungbenro, at the party’s state secretariat, Ibadan. With his declaration, Adeniran is expected to slug it out with the incumbent occupant of the office, Senator Kola Balogun, though yet to officially declare his intention, and others for the sole ticket of the PDP. Adeniran said his decision to vie as Senator is informed by the need to provide quality representation and improve social and physical infrastructure for constituents of the Oyo South Senatorial district. He added that his resolve is to organize regular constituency meetings to bridge the gap between constituents and their representatives and ensure that party leaders who work for the victory of the party at elections are not jettisoned. He added that he had informed the party leader, Governor Seyi Makinde of his ambition, and got a go-ahead. Adeniran said: “I am availing people of the district of my capacity to provide quality representation and to let them see and establish feedback mechanism between constituents and lawmaker. I am also out to contribute to the growth of infrastructure and complement what the Oyo state government is doing in education, health and other infrastructure and ensure that party leaders, through which we get to the office, are not jettisoned. I will also ensure a regular feedback mechanism through regular constituency meetings. “Before now, I have made consultations in the nine local government in the Senatorial district, met with party leaders, met with executive and ward Chairmen and to meet party members at their various ward meetings “I have taken my case to the people, the party members, and leaders to determine who they want to fly the party of the flag. We are all brothers and sisters at the party. The present occupier of the office is my very good brother, we have a good relationship. We were both commissioners under the government of late former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala and when he was contesting for the senatorial seat, we worked together to ensure his victory at the poll. “Governor Seyi Makinde trusts in my ability, capacity and person. We all want Seyi Makinde to consolidate on the good work he has started so the issue of contesting for governorship does not arise. “I am serving under Governor Seyi Makinde and he is the leader of my party. It will be a great disservice to the party and my leader not to have informed him of my interest. I have informed him and as a leader, he said you are free like every other person to aspire, the party members will decide at the appropriate time.” Asked about resigning as Chairman, Oyo SUBEB, in compliance with the new Electoral Act, Adeniran said: “I am a lawyer; I have seen the Electoral Act and I know I am going to resign at the appropriate time to be able to ventilate my ambition. There is no issue with resignation. I am strongly determined to contest for this position and I will resign at the appropriate time.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Oyo SUBEB Chairman  Oyo SUBEB Chairman Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Oyo SUBEB Chairman  Oyo SUBEB Chairman ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team