23-year-old American-based Nigerian afrobeat singer, rapper and talented songwriter, Ogede Paul Onah, with stage name Onah Paid has hinted fans on his upcoming album titled “Ugly Struggle” and musical career. Speaking about his exploits in the industry, Onah Paid said he first gained recognition with his single, “Long Time Coming” released on January 3rd 2022, that spanned about 500k streams on all music streaming platforms. While fielding questions on his beginning, Onah Paid admitted that he is from Oju, Benue State but he grew up in a rural neighbourhood of Ona-Ara Local Government Area of Oyo State. “I am currently studying Criminal Law at the University of Indianapolis, USA. I previously attended St. James’ Primary School in Atikori, Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State and proceeded to Kegbo Community High School, Atikori, Ijebu-Igbo. I also sat for my Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (SSCE) at Gbedun Community High School, Ibadan. “Although, I initially gained admission into the University of Ibadan in 2018 to study Philosophy but dropped out due to financial deficiency.” “I am the first child of my parents and has four siblings. I’m born into a Christian home and I attend church regularly as a culture,” he added. Onah Paid further asserted that his life’s story reflects in his songs, from growing up in the ugly corner of a typical rural area to losing his dad at the age of fifteen, adding that he prefers selling all his pains rather than complaining about them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Onah Paid reflects struggles as artiste in upcoming album ‘Ugly Struggle’  Onah Paid reflects struggles as artiste in upcoming album ‘Ugly Struggle’  Onah Paid reflects struggles as artiste in upcoming album ‘Ugly Struggle’  Onah Paid reflects struggles as artiste in upcoming album ‘Ugly Struggle’ ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details