Security operatives have commenced investigations following the detonation a suspected Improvised Explosive Device (IED) at Hayin Danmani, Igabi local government area of Kaduna state This was disclosed by the state commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan in a statement on Saturday. He said, ‘security agencies reported that a suspected Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was detonated around Yazufa Junction, Hayin Danmani, Igabi LGA, after it was planted in a motorcycle belonging to one Mohammed Hassan, a POS operator in the area. ‘ According to the preliminary investigations, Hassan at the close of business, went to pick up his motorcycle where it was parked close to his shop, and upon starting the motorcycle, it exploded. ‘ The explosion resulted in serious injuries to Hassan and a yet-unidentified passer-by. There was also damage to the roof of nearby structure. ‘ Personnel of the Police anti-bomb squad arrived at the scene to remove the debris. They also disabled a second device found planted in the motorcycle. ‘ The injured duo are receiving treatment, in a medical facility as investigations proceed. ‘Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed shock and sadness at the report, and wished the injured persons a speedy recovery. He reiterated calls for increased vigilance by citizens to the threat of explosives being placed by terrorists to cause harm and destruction. ‘Investigations are ongoing into the incident the statement declared. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details