The Edo State Police Command on Wednesday announced the killing of a notorious armed robber cum cultist, who was said to have escaped from the Edo State Correctional Centre during the October 2020 End SARS riots. A statement issued by the Command and endorsed by its spokesman, Bello Kontongs, stated that the deceased suspect, known as Fidelis Ekata, had been on the wanted list of the Command before he was sighted in the Uromi axis of the state with his gang members, where he was gunned down. According to the statement, the deceased died of the gunshot wound he sustained when he took on police operatives in Uromi. The statement reads in parts: “Today 02/03/2022 at about 1000hrs Operatives of Edo State Police Command, acting on credible information that a notorious armed robber/cultist popularly known as Ekata and an escapee of the Edo State Correctional Center Benin during the October 2020 END SARS PROTEST, who has been on the Command’s wanted list, was sighted somewhere in Uromi town in the company of his other gang members. “On receipt of the information, the Area Commander, Uromi, immediately deployed a team of Police Operatives to the location. On sighting the team of operatives, the gang opened fire on them, while the team gallantly responded. “In the ensuing gun duel, one Fidelis Ekata ‘M’ who is the gang leader of the armed robbers/cultist sustained gunshot injuries and was rushed to General Hospital Uromi for treatment but was confirmed dead by the Doctor on duty, while other gang members escaped with gunshot injuries. “Effort is on to ensure the arrest of the fleeing gang members. “The following items were recovered from the dead gang leader. One cut to size gun and one live cartridge. The commissioner of police Edo State Command while commending the gallantry exhibited by the team, advised criminals in the State to eschew criminality or risk being arrested”, the statement warned. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.