The Attah of Ayede-Ekiti in Oye Local Government area of Ekiti State Oba Abdul-Mumini Adebayo Orisagbemi, was on Sunday attacked by gunmen suspected to be kidnappers. Sources told Nigerian Tribune on Monday that the First class traditional ruler was shot by the gunmen while travelling on the Isan-Ekiti-Ayede road at about 8:30pm. It was gathered that the kidnappers, who had been terrorising the people along the axis in the last one year, attempted to kidnap the traditional ruler before he escaped from the scene. One of the sources said that the kidnappers, numbering about 10, fired shots into the vehicle which hit the traditional ruler in the leg. He disclosed that the traditional ruler had been taken to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. The  source said, “The traditional ruler was travelling along the road around around 8:30pm which is now notorious for kidnappings and attacks by bandits. “The gunmen wanted to kidnap him and fired several shots into his car but due to the deft move by his driver, they managed to escape from the scene but unfortunately, the shots hit the monarch in the leg. “As I speak with you, Kabiesi is now in the hospital receiving treatment over the gunshot wounds, especially in his legs. We pray for his quick recovery.” He stated further: “Let me say this. That particular axis has been in the news for the wrong reasons in the last one year over the activities of bandits attacking people on the road, but government has not done anything to address the situation. This is sad. It could be anybody tomorrow, if this is not nipped in the bud.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Sunday Abutu, said that the traditional ruler was returning from Ijero-Ekiti when the gunmen attacked him. According to him, the command responded swiftly to rescue the traditional ruler from the gunmen, saying efforts were ongoing to arrest the perpetrators. “He was returning from Ijero when the unknown gunmen came out from the bush and started shooting at his vehicle at about 9pm. “In the process, he sustained gunshot wounds in his leg and is currently receiving and responding to treatment in one hospital. “ Efforts are ongoing to arrest the gunmen and bring them to justice,” Abutu said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.