Gbemileke Banjo, Founder of Vans and Resà Realty and Lifestyle firm, is a certified realtor from the School of Estate, Maryland. In this interview with FAITH ADEOYE, she talks about her journey in real estate, her passion for running businesses, challenges in Nigeria’s real estate sector, among other issues.  What informed your decision to start Vans and Resà Realty and Lifestyle firm? It was just a dream that I brought to life. Years back, I worked at an Asset & Investment Institution (Apel Asset) that provides solutions to wealth management and that got me motivated to start up a real estate firm. The main inspiration for starting this firm is my entrepreneurial spirit. There are also successful people whom I admire. A history of entrepreneurs in my family and environment have been my major influence and I have a strong desire to succeed for a purpose much bigger than me. The firm has a vision of transforming people’s lives and the environment; earning the respect of my clients and business acquaintances. How would you describe your experience so far in the real estate industry? My experience so far in the real estate sector has been innovative enough. I have had opportunities to travel overseas and partner with big firms. I have experienced both the ups and downs in real estate development and sales, which I think is enough to be a strong firm today. What qualities make you a good realtor and what set you apart from your competitors? Knowledge is power. I have made good network connections in the real estate business. I understand the local housing market, pay attention to detail, and have a personal interest in housing and architecture. It’s a whole lot actually. I don’t just sell properties, I sell my personality. Not only do I listen to all of my clients, but I also take the extra step by looking at the homes/offices/environment on my own first. When I do a walkthrough of the potential houses, I can spot details they may like, increasing the chances of my client liking the brief. I feel that my active listening and empathy skills allow me to select the best listing for my clients and colleagues. What are the current challenges in Nigeria’s real estate sector? To start with, I’d say activities of bogus people who pose as estate agents and commit fraud, hence shaking the confidence of property owners in releasing their properties to agents. And of course, there are lots of properties with exorbitant prices with little or low requests from clients/property buyers. Furthermore, the rate of sexual harassment faced by female realtors is quite sad. I believe we could do better as humans. How do you think the government can address some of these challenges? Basically, with my knowledge, we should have legislation in both state and national assembly to make laws to regulate the aforementioned anomalies and others that I didn’t get to mention. Also, attention should be paid to sexual harassment and all other related complaints. This way, real estate in Nigeria would get better and we’d move forward and be better as a country. What is the motivation that has kept you going? I’d say my tremendous zeal to be successful. Although I must say it’s not been easy, I’ve faced lots of challenges, disappointments, losses, roadblocks, setbacks, breakdowns,  pains and also have had more wins. But I’ve always had this teeth-gritting tenacity to always hold on and to never quit regardless of my situation. I think this has helped me and my firm. Where do you see your Vans and Resà Realty & Lifestyle firm in the next five years? I see Vans and Resá realty at the top. Creating more job opportunities, providing and setting a wide-ranging system of investment plans, developing and delivering standard properties. Tell us about yourself? I am Nigerian and I am a businesswoman and an entrepreneur but the basis of who I am is that I am a certified realtor from the School of Estate Maryland.  I manage and sell properties in Lagos and Dubai for Nigerians and Nigerians in the diaspora. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details