The Managing Director of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Professor Adesoji Adesugba has said that investment in the Lagos Free Zone is expected to grow from $3.5bn to $461bn in 45 years. The NEPZA Managing Director disclosed this on Tuesday on the sideline of the inspection of the Lekki deep seaport by President Mohammadu Buhari in Lagos. According to Professor Adesugba, “The Lagos Free Zone is one of the biggest that we have at the moment. The impact of the $1.5bn Lekki Deep seaport, which is expected to handle mega-sized vessels, is that the multiplier effect will be phenomenal. We at NEPZA expects investments located inside the Lagos Free Zone, which currently stands around $3.5bn when considering the ports, to grow to $461bn in 45 years. “We are going to have thousands and thousands of Nigerians working here. The effect on the GDP will be awesome. The location of the port here is going to open doors for those who want to have their factories and production centres around the Lagos Free Zone. The effect of this is that Nigerian goods will be competitive. Companies will be able to employ more Nigerians rather than go outside to employ foreigners.” On export, the NEPZA Managing Director explained that the incentives that the Lagos Free Zone provides will boost export activities due to its nearness to the biggest deep seaport in the sub-region. “The incentives that abound in the Lagos Free Zone will boost Nigeria’s export drive. Don’t forget that inside the Lagos Free Zone is duty-free. So when importers import goods and come into the Free Zone, it is duty-free for them. Free zones are built like a country within a country where there is no multiplicity of taxes on goods and services. If businesses produce inside the Lagos Free Zone and wish to export them to Ghana, Togo, and other countries, the goods are not taxed. They enjoy duty-free services. It is only when such goods are being taken into Nigeria that they become subject to payment of duty. “That’s why you can see the numbers of companies that are lined up here. In the Lagos Free Zone alone, we have 26 international companies. In three months time, we will be opening here one of the biggest Colgate factories in the world. We are inviting all companies all around the world because this is where it’s happening right now. “Some of the investors who met with me earlier today expressed worries over the lack of rail linkage to the Lagos Free Zone, and I assured them that it is in the works. “Government is already looking at connecting this area to the rail line due to its huge economic importance to the country.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details