Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday, rolled out the first batch of 1,000 brand-new GAC-branded automobiles, projected to be a safe, comfortable and modernised taxi scheme in the state. The scheme, codenamed “LAGOS RIDE,” was launched at a well-attended ceremony held at the State House in Alausa. The ride-hailing taxi initiative, which is being operated on a lease-to-own basis, is a component of the state government’s multimodal transportation blueprint being executed under the THEMES agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration. The initiative is a partnership between Lagos State-owned IBILE Holding Limited and CIG Motors Company Limited, with the objective to provide clean and reliable means of taxis movement across the metropolis at affordable cost, using brand-new vehicles. Operators are required to pay about N1.9 million down payment, of which the sum covers the 20 per cent equity of cost of vehicle, registration and insurance. Each car being used in the scheme comes with technology-enabled security features that monitor every journey undertaken. Governor Sanwo-Olu, while speaking during the launch, said Lagos State had moved another step forward in its drive to develop an efficient transportation model in tune with modernity and comfort. The governor, however, quickly said that the aim was not to run existing hailing ride operators out of the business but to offer safer alternatives and clear the roads of rickety cars being used for taxi business. According to him, the scheme will provide opportunities to the operators to become owners of the vehicles within three to four years period, assuring that the taxi scheme would complement the various bus services which were making significant impact in the lives of Lagosians. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The need to provide better, dignifying and more rewarding means of transportation and livelihood for unemployed and underemployed population gave birth to the new ‘Lagos State Taxi Scheme,’ which will be operated on a lease-to-own basis. “Under this arrangement, a beneficiary will be provided a brand-new car which will become the driver’s property after completion of the payment of the vehicle’s subsidised cost. “This taxi scheme will complement the various bus services which are making significant impact in the lives of our people; the water transport service, which is recording unprecedented patronage, as well as the Blue and Red Line Rail services which are on course to commence commercial operations between the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2023,” Governor Sanwo-Olu stated. The governor, while assuring of improved riders’ and passengers’ security, said a full security gadget, including a 360 dashboard camera that will give 24-hour audio-visual feeds to the control centre, had been pre-installed on each car deployed for the scheme. He added that each car came with a physical panic button that could be used by anyone on board in case of assault or emergency, saying that the panic button is also on the mobile application and connected to the Control and Command Centre. The governor disclosed that the automobile assembly plant being set up in Lagos – another component of the partnership between CIG Motors’ and the state government – stood at 60 per cent completion, with anticipated launch and start of operations expected in September. “What we are witnessing today is that Lagos is moving away from the era of rickety kabu kabu to a brand-new, comfortable and safe transport system. The multiplier effect of this singular initiative on job creation, youth employment and economic growth and development in the State cannot be overstated,” Sanwo-Olu said. Commissioners for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladehinde, in his own remark, described the scheme as “another milestone achievement” by the state government led by Governor Sanwo-Olu, noting that the initiative had joined an array of other innovative solutions initiated in the transport sector, which, according to him, were targeted at redefining public transportation. Oladehinde said the ride was made affordable with the technology on which the scheme is operated, adding that such had made ride-sharing possible for passengers, who would agree to share ride and share transit costs Chairman of CIG Motors in Nigeria, Mrs Diana Chang, said the roadmap for the urbanisation of the transportation system in Lagos started in November 2019 when Governor Sanwo-Olu and members of his cabinet visited the Republic of China for bilateral partnership, describing the launch as the glorious end of the partnership sealed with Chinese investors. “We are using this partnership to promote a Greater Lagos where opportunities abound for citizens of the State while creating a win-win model for all stakeholders,” she said. Managing Director of IBILE Holding, Mr Abiodun Amokomowo, said over 5,700 drivers had downloaded the driver’s mobile apps as of last Tuesday, out of which 1,786 drivers submitted applications, disclosing that registration and enrolment fee had been accepted from 359 drivers, while others were awaiting screening. “As part of the process each operator will go through for the safety and security of life and effective operations of the scheme, we will conduct full verification of applicants’ Lagos State Drivers’ Institute (LASDRI) ID cards, medical history, background check and verification of NIN and Lagos resident registration numbers,” he said. The launch of the taxi scheme was received with a warm embrace by ride-hailing drivers, who described the initiative as a “unique, better alternative.” Sam Mfuk, who is the first successful driver to get onboard of the scheme, said: “When we first heard about LAGOS RIDE, we were sceptical. But, when we attended the stakeholders’ meetings, we changed our minds. “LAGOS RIDE has become the answer to our prayers in the ride-hailing sector. The details and features they shared with us were clearly thought out and our input was well included in the final model.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Sanwo-Olu launches tech-driven Lagos Ride Taxi Scheme Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Sanwo-Olu launches tech-driven Lagos Ride Taxi Scheme Sanwo-Olu launches tech-driven Lagos Ride Taxi Scheme ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details