Nigeria, the United Kingdom, Turkey, the United States of America, Indonesia, Thailand, Pakistan, United Arab Emirates and Poland among other countries would be participating as the West Africa Automotive Show (WAAS), returns to Lagos in May this year. More than 100 exhibitors from Nigeria and around the world will be showcasing the latest developments and products in the auto parts and services sector to more than 3,000 visitors from across western Africa. The show, which will take place at the Landmark Centre on Victoria Island, is endorsed by the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), the founding partner in Africa’s largest auto spare part market–ASPMDA Auto Spare Parts and Machinery Dealers Association. WAAS is organised by BtoB Events, BtoB Events’ Managing Director, Jamie Hill, said he is looking forward to seeing the regional automotive sector come together again. “We are delighted to be able to bring the long-anticipated return of the West Africa Automotive Show back to Nigeria, for its first post-pandemic edition,” he said. He further stated: “Demand for exhibition space has been very high, which reflects the strong desire from the market to get back to business and make us for lost time. The impact of the pandemic on international trade was huge, so the exhibition will act as a perfect platform for businesses to find new suppliers from around the world and suppliers to find new customers across the region.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team