Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike was in Benue State on Sunday and declared to run for president of the country in the coming general elections. Wike, who met with some national delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at Government House, Makurdi appealed to them to vote for him during the coming party primary. He said he possesses what it takes to turn around the country for the better and also said that his contributions to the party over the years were good enough to get the party support. “Don’t sell your vote, please, give me your vote as we go to primary. When I become the president, I will prioritise security; because the essence of government is to protect lives and property,” he said. Wike charged the party delegates to be mindful of some presidential aspirants who claimed to be the founding father of the party as well as those who flaunt their father’s wealth, saying they were the ones responsible for the defeat of the party in 2015. He said, “Let these people who are interested in the presidency in PDP tell us their contributions, you claimed to be one of the founding fathers of the party, but you have left and come back, you have become an ordinary person in the new PDP. “If you form a company and run away because the company is not doing well you come back and found that it is now doing well and you want to come and take over. “Some people want to use Nigeria to get back their private businesses, let them mention their private sector that survived. Is it a bank that your father had? “Everybody is an employer of labour, even me I have 50 people in my house, so everybody has been employing people according to his capacity. “In 2015, most of these people made us (PDP) lose the election. Wike said he had spoken truth to power, saying, “I have spoken truth to power, I don’t have problem with anybody but I have to tell them the truth. Umahi and others abused me because I told him that he cannot take our mandate away. “As a governor, I have performed well, I can go anywhere with my shoulder high, how many of them have challenged this government (APC)?” Earlier, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom appreciated the contributions of his Rivers State counterpart to Benue State, especially during the herdsmen invasion in 2018. He said that the state would reciprocate by supporting his aspiration. “Periodically, you have been helping us, particularly during the 2018 crisis in the state, we will support your aspiration because you have sown seed and you need to reap. The governor said he had been an advocate on the southern presidency, saying, “on the southern presidency, I stand”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details