Senator representing Niger East and aspirant for the office of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Sani Musa has dismissed the endorsement of former Nasarawa State Governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, for the office. Speaking with newsmen on Friday shortly after submitting his Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms, Senator Musa said the fact that the party has not precluded anyone from North Central from picking the form vitiated the speculation of an anointed candidate. He said:” Why did the party sell forms to us? You sold forms to us and as far as I’m concerned, there’s never been anybody that officially contacted me or any other aspirants. Nobody! And the spokesperson to Mr President, Femi Adesina had said that there’s no endorsement. So, we want vibrant leadership. We want leadership that will change the status quo. What are we talking about, the endorsement I want is your endorsement. I want the endorsement of 43 million APC members. That is what I need.” The aspirant who promised to improve on the financial fortunes of the APC said under the leadership the party would not be tied to the apron string of anybody or group to meet up its financial needs. “I’m looking forward to this convention on 26 March and on that day, there will be a new beginning in the APC in which there will be a transitional change, we will bring digitization into the APC. To be cohesive, the APC needs leadership that will bring direction. The APC needs a leader that will be able to build concessions between all dividing organs. “The executive governors are there to support the party and the party is there to work with the governor. We want to see a party that will become an institution in Africa. APC is the largest party and all we need to do is to put the structure. That is, the political parties need to be very strong. We have a democracy in this country that has a very strong foundation but what we are lacking is the leadership that will be able to transform our party structure to what it should be. “A platform to groom leaders. That is what I’m bringing new to APC. And APC will not be dependent on anybody to fund it. With the number of 43 million members, we have no business going cap in hand to beg anybody for money. That is what I’m bringing to APC.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…APC convention  APC convention Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…APC convention  APC convention ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team