As the preparations for the 2023  Presidential Elections hot up, a renowned Cleric and founder of the New Heaven Evangelical Ministries, Akwanga, Nasarawa State, Bishop Lawrence Marke, on Saturday said that  God had revealed to him that former Lagos Governor and the  All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential aspirant, would become the nation’s President come 2023. Bishop Marke, who stated this at a special prayer session organised for Tinubu in Abuja to commemorate the Party National Convention held in the nation’s Federal Capital Terribly, FCT, said that the former Lagos Governor was the chosen one to sail the nation to the promised land According to the cleric, “among all the presidential aspirants in contention for the noble seat of presidency, God is at peace with Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He is the chosen one to sail the Nation to the promised land. For the people rejoice when the righteous is in power. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “God chooses a man for his people in ways that we cannot begin to understand. Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu is someone God has chosen. How do you know a leader? You know a leader by the way they have impacted the public in the past, by the way, they do all they can with what they have to lead the public in good faith.” He said that Nigeria had been stagnant for years because of a lack of religious harmony, adding that the nation needed a leader like Tinubu “who is not religiously biased”. According to him, “Nigeria has had the religious clash issues for so many years, this being one of the basic reasons we are suffering what we are today. Nigeria needs a leader who is not religiously biased, a leader who does not support a religious sect for any reason, whatsoever. Nigeria needs a fearless leader who is not bent by any religious sect, one that remains unbiased in his decision making. Nigeria needs a man like Ahmed Bola Tinubu. “He has had our interest at heart for so long in time, his goal is Nigeria and Nigerians. Putting us first before himself, because this has been his long childhood dream “It will be unreasonable that we do not see what God has set before our very own eyes. We shouldn’t be blinded to the answer of our prayers and cry.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details