One Aisha Tijani has been arrested by the operatives of the Ogun State Police Command for setting her 10-year-old daughter ablaze. The incident, according to the Command’s Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, happened last Sunday at the Mowe area in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of the state. The matter was said to have been reported by a co-tenant of Tijani, Moroof Ayinde, at the Mowe Divisional Police Headquarters, who informed the Police that the suspect got annoyed because the victim gave out a phone seized from one of her siblings. The Divisional Police Officer, Mowe, CSP Folashade Tanaruno, upon the information ordered his men to the scene and got the suspect arrested. Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said the victim who was badly burnt was rushed to a hospital and later taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu. During interrogation, the suspect, who claimed to have been separated from the father of the children, explained to the police that she didn’t know what came over her when she was carrying out the wicked act. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Mother sets 10-year-old daughter ablaze with petrol in Ogun Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Mother sets 10-year-old daughter ablaze with petrol in Ogun ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details