Police operatives in Akure, Ondo State capital have arrested a middle-aged, man Sikiru Owolabi for allegedly stabbing his landlord’s son during a free for all fight in Akure, Ondo state capital. The incident happened in the Ijo Mimo area of Akure, on Tuesday evening, during an altercation between the suspect and the deceased before the suspect stabbed the deceased to death with a bottle. According to an eyewitness, the deceased who was the son of the landlord engaged in an argument with the suspect, leading to a fight while the suspect stabbed his landlord’s son to death. He said the suspect who is said to be a shoemaker in a shop in the deceased’s father’s house, engaged the deceased in a fight following a hot argument between them. The source said, “As they were fighting, the shoemaker took a broken bottle and stabbed him (Adinlewa). He later gave up the ghost on the way to the hospital. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami said the incident happened during a free for all between the duo. Odunlami said the suspect has been arrested and was already in police custody, and said the matter had been transferred to the Criminal Investigative Department of the police command for further investigation. Odunlami said, “The suspect is in our custody, he said he acted on self-defence when the deceased took an object to attack him while they were fighting. We have transferred the case to the SCID for further investigation.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity