A 29- year-old hairdresser, Morayo Ayeni, who was abducted in her shop in Ore, headquarters of Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo state, has narrated how she escaped from the kidnapper’s den in a forest at the outskirts of the town. The traumatised lady disclosed that she was hypnotised by the suspected kidnappers who visited her shop and ordered her to get into the car while she was driven off from the area with another woman who was in her shop to do her hair. According to her, the other woman abducted with her came to retouch her hair “but I declined because I was preparing for the association meeting and she started begging me. She, however, received a call on her phone and claimed not to know the caller while he asked the caller to stop disturbing her but later described my shop to the man who later traced her to my shop. “She couldn’t place the man’s face but immediately the man alighted from his vehicle, he ordered us to get into the car and we couldn’t argue with him and he drove us away from the shop.” The hairdresser said “That was all I could remember, by the time I regained consciousness, the man was talking to someone on the other end that he was able to pick two ladies. He was asked to deposit us at a particular place but when they noticed people might suspect them, they took us to the other side and instructed the boys who are with him not to allow us to escape. It was when we were being led into the bush that I took the courage to run away while they were discussing and not looking at me but the other woman was still there. “The leader of the team ordered the boys to apprehend me, that if I escape they will be killed in my place. I used all my strength to run from the bush without looking back and I don’t know how I was able to escape from these men. I was so lucky to meet some Amotekun officials when I got to the main road after taking a bike and I explained what happened to them, while some of them took me to Ore and some went after the kidnappers. The Commander of Amotekun in the state, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, confirmed that his men rescued the victim along Ore/ Ondo highway, saying his men had been combing the bush to bring the abductors to book, warned the residents of the state to be vigilant and wary of people with. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more