The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) has said the recent train attack was not only callous but nobody or group has the right to subject this kind of terror on Nigerians. NIPR in a statement issued by its National President, Mukhtar Zubairu Sirajo and made available to the Nigerian Tribune said the institute sympathises with Nigerians over the callous attack on the Kaduna-Abuja train last night. It noted that the attack, which was followed by deaths injury to, and abduction of yet unspecified number of passengers is not only unfortunate and unacceptable but also a sad reminder of the descent into the abyss the security situation, especially in that part of the country, has fallen. “Nobody or group has the right to continuously subject people to this kind of reign of terror, dehumanising them and seemingly getting away with it. “While the Institute appreciates the gallant role being played by our armed forces and other security and law enforcement agencies to square up to the bandits perpetrating these heinous acts, it is clear that a lot more needs to be done to inspire the confidence of the people. Sirajo who is also the chairman of the Governing Council of the institute said, “The earlier attack on the same route, which occurred in October last year ought to have served as a wake-up call for the system to be more proactive to forestall what was a not so unexpected occurrence, given the seeming over-reliance of commuters on the train service as a safer alternative to plying the Abuja-Kaduna road. “There’s a very urgent need for our security agencies to strategise and get on top of the situation rather than wait to react. “Government on its part must spare no effort in continuing to provide the armed forces and security agencies with all logistical requirements to enable them to up the ante in this must-win war. “The intelligence gathering processes must also be given a short in the arm to enable the agencies to get ahead of these criminals in all ways imaginable. “The NIPR expresses its heartfelt condolences to families of the deceased, Federal and Kaduna State governments, prayers for the prompt rescue of those abducted as well as speedy recovery for the injured.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details