From the beginning of the year, music star and songwriter, BLINX has been working on a new project and kept his fans abreast of the progress being made to serve them what he described as something “unusual and beautiful”. True to his words, South Africa-based Trap rapper, songwriter and producer on Wednesday during an interactive session with journalists unveiled the album cover and track listing for his long awaited collaborative project. He described the EP entitled ‘AFRO FROM A TRAP HOUSE’ (AFATH) as a body of work with long-time collaborative partner ‘Doe Billz’, adding that the project had been in the works since December 2021. With BLINX giving his fans and followers teasers with tit bits of the forthcoming extended play album, he said making the project and working with ‘Doe Billz’ could not have come at a better time, promising that his fans would have a great time listening to the work. This new EP will be the second body of work by the independent artiste in less than two years as he released his maiden EP ‘Pain, Suffering & Sacrifice’ late last year to critical acclaim and applause by fans. Speaking about the EP, he said “I have long wanted to record a collaborative album, but each time life happens, and I haven’t been in the right frame of mind to do so. But having worked with Doe Billz on several records, I found we were in the same head space and shared the same ideas, so it is only proper that we got in the studio and made this EP together”. Born Obinna Okolie in Coal City, Enugu State, Nigeria, He is better known as ‘Blinx’. He relocated to South Africa in 2018 and made his musical debut with the release of two singles titled “Six Figures” & “Suicide” in 2019. “I live music and in this EP Doe Billz and I tried different things we both felt comfortable with. I am fairly certain hip hop heads, gen z, trap enthusiasts and good music lovers will appreciate our input on this album,” Blinx added. The 5-track EP has songs like BLOW MY MIND, WEEKEND, SARO, VIBE, GO LOW and is slated for release sometime in April, but added that pre-order links will be made available soon. “We are already in the process of planning a media tour both in South Africa and Nigeria to promote this EP. Dates for these will be announced as soon as concrete arrangements are in place”. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details