Osun State chapter of the Action Alliance (AA), on Saturday held its party governorship primary election, having Prince Adekunle Fadahunsi emerging as the party flag bearer in the July 16 governorship election in the state. In the contest held at the state party Secretariat in Osogbo, Fadahunsi polled 85 votes against his contender, Pastor Ayodeji Oni who scored 6 votes at the indirect primary election. Speaking after the declaration of Fadahunsi as the winner of the contest, the primary election committee chairman, Hon Aliyu Inuwa Dandoge said Prince Adekunle Fadahunsi was declared elected having satisfied the constitutional provisions of the party. The committee chairman who is the Kano chairman of Action Alliance, commended the party members for their good coordination before, during and after the election and charged them to be optimistic that, the party candidate would win the awaiting Governorship election in the state. He added that the action alliance is a party that is blessed with a formidable structure that could stand the test of time and maintained that, there is no cause for alarm for party members to exercise fear in the contest ahead. In his own comment, after handing over the party flag to Fadahunsi, the national chairman of the party, Hon. Adekunle Rufai Omoaje congratulated him and affirmed that, through the party, he would become the next governor of the state by the grace of God. He remarked, “Action Alliance will emerge victorious at the end of July 16, governorship election in Osun State; as people are yearning for a party that would rescue them for alleged misrule of the All Progressives Congress APC and Peoples Democratic Party PDP and AA is the best option for the assignment.” In his acceptance speech, Prince Olaniyi Fadahunsi called on all members to unite and work assiduously for the party declaring that there is no victor or vanquished in the outcome of the primary. According to him, “We will together offer a better alternative to the status quo governance that has not propelled the state forward since the advent of democracy in 1999.” He charged the party members to rally around him to make his dream of becoming the next governor in the state a reality and promised to make the state more virile if voted in as the state governor. “I want to assure you that, I will exploit all the resources available in the state both human and material to deliver the dividend of democracy to Osun people,” he submitted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more