A mother of two, Miss Tina Idoroyen, has allegedly burned her five years old daughter’s hands with hot water, for allegedly stealing her 18 pieces of fish, in Calabar. Narrating and confirming the incident, a staff of Basic Right Council Initiative BRCI, Madam Ideba Edu Ele, shared photos of the incident explaining how the whole incident happened. “I took these pictures holding back tears. Her mother, a food vendor prepared 19 pieces of fish for her business and went out; on getting back, she met only one. “She then boiled hot water and dipped her hands into it. Our organization Basic Rights Counsel Initiative has been taking care of the medical bills for weeks now. “Her mother stated that the father of the child abandoned her two years ago and she still has an 8-year-old daughter to take care of all by herself. “She shared how hard it was for her to feed and pay her bills. She admitted that the child had not eaten and was hungry when she ate the fish. “She stated that she was frustrated because she had borrowed N10,000 the previous week to pay back N15,000. She used the money to start up the fish business and also to pay their fees. “So when she went to the market to buy some foodstuff, she returned only to discover what her younger daughter had done, she was extremely angry and it resulted in what she did,” she explained. Although the minor is responding to treatment, she is under the care of the Basic Right Council Initiative in Calabar, Cross a River State. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details