In a bid to support education in the country, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has stated that the ministry has successfully intervened in the rehabilitation of internal road networks of 46 federal institutions. Fashola noted that the ministry handed over 29 roads in the year 2021 while another 17 are ready to be handed over, adding that the ministry is attending to 30 roads in similar institutions across the country which according to him makes a total of 76. Fashola who was represented by the Federal Controller of works Oyo State, Engr Kayode Ibrahim, stated this during the commissioning of the internal road at the Federal College of Agriculture, Moor Plantation, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Tuesday. While he added that the rehabilitation also includes flood control, stone pitching and lane marking of the road. Fashola added that it is debatable that the quality of education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment. He said: “The gap of our infrastructure needs is steadily being bridged by a gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction on major highways and it has reached the schools. “The students are expressing renewed enthusiasm with regards to attending classes because some defective roads have been restored to good condition. “This is consistent with our progressive ideal of improving the human condition and that process continues here today as we hand over this one in Federal College of Agriculture Moor Plantation as a critical intervention to support education.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He added that the project has contributed to the job creation initiatives of the government through the employment of 30 people while he urged the school management to ensure that the asset is used properly. Responding to the Provost of the college, Dr Elizabeth Augustus, appreciate the federal government and ministry of works for the rehabilitation of the road. While she added that the rehabilitated road will improve accessibility and ease movements of the staff and students of the institution. Adding that the road which is tagged centenary road will beautify the college premises as the institution marks its centenary anniversary celebration. Dr Augustus appealed to the federal government to look into the reconstruction of the access road link directly into the college from Abeokuta road. Also speaking at the event, the institution’s Students Union Government (SUG) President Faruq Adedoyin, appreciate the federal government for the rehabilitation of the road. He said the project will indeed help the students’ movement within the campus. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity