The tactical team from Imo State Police Command has repelled an attempted attack on the Njaba Police Station in Njaba Local Government Area of Imo State. In a statement issued on Tuesday in Owerri by the Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini, through the Public Relations Officer, CSP Michael Abatham, the gunmen suspected to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network came in their numbers and threw Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and shot sporadically while attempting to gain entrance into the station. According to CP they were repelled by the gallant Divisional Police Officer and his men supported by some of the Command’s Tactical Teams. He said that the police operatives of the division had positioned themselves strategically and professionally, and engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel and was able to suppress the hoodlums, making them to suffer a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds. The CP said that the situation made them retreat and run towards Njaba bridge in a Sienna vehicle and were given a hot chase by the police operatives. Unfortunately, the hoodlums ran into a detachment of the Army at Njaba Bridge, who engaged them in another gun battle. Rabiu said that during the exchange of gunfire, the hoodlums suffered huge casualties which made them scamper for safety as they ran into the bush abandoning their operational vehicle. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Police boss said that as a result of that the tactical team has engaged in the aggressive combing of the bush/manhunt for the hoodlums to recover more arms and to arrest the fleeing suspects since they cannot move far because of the bloodstain trails seen in the vehicle and on the ground in the bushes. He said that one pump action gun, abandoned by one of the injured hoodlums was recovered and the Sienna vehicle used and abandoned was towed to the station for further investigation. According to him, no life was lost, no arms/ammunition was carted away and the building of the police station remained intact apart from the minor damage to the perimeter wall fence. The Commissioner of Police commended the officers and men for their gallantry and urged them not to relent in their efforts until all criminal elements and their partners are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law. He then. He appealed to Imolites for the continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies, especially the Police, credible and timely information and to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.