The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) says it has commenced plans to fully participate in the 2023 general elections as a stakeholder and participant, starting with a political discussion with the labour veteran community in a few days time. The Congress also reacted to the scarcity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), and blamed the Federal Government’s poor handling for the worsening situation. Speaking to journalists in Abuja recently, President of TUC, Quadri Olaleye, said the current travails and pains Nigerians are experiencing occasioned by policies of government at various levels, was the main reason the Congress decided to play an active role in the 2023 general elections. On the growing scarcity of fuel in the country, Olaleye said that TUC is presently monitoring the situation including the actions and policy decisions of the government, adding that at the appropriate time it would respond. “We are watching the unfolding scenario and we will respond at the right time. They are playing games with the Nigerian people,” he said. He also listed some of the challenges to include “abuse and neglect of the country’s human and natural resources, threatening unemployment, insecurity, almost N40 trillion debt, devaluation of the naira, subsidy saga.” He added that the purpose of the briefing was to inform Nigerians and all genuine progressives of the determination of the labour movement to engage and help chart a new course for Nigeria. “We are at a critical time in this country and the silence of organised labour can no longer be said to be golden. If we miss it at this time, the damage will be too grave to bear. “To this effect, the congress, at its National Executive Council (NEC) in Asaba, Delta State, early last year constituted a political commission whose core responsibility is to provide a platform for workers to canvass for good governance, economic and social justice in Nigeria. “A comprehensive political education programme to achieve the mandate has been designed and we are assiduously working towards that,” he said. He added that TUC plans to commence a process of organising and mobilising workers and like-minded political actors for political alternatives to leadership problems in Nigeria. Also, he hinted that the roundtable is intended to provide a platform for active political engagement of workers, retirees and veterans in the trade union movement. Olaleye said the programme aims “To broaden the conversation on the need to change the leadership recruitment process in Nigeria through ensuring that credible leaders with great potential emerge to lead at various levels. “To strengthen the democratic process and promote social democracy; to generate continuous conversations on free, fair, and credible electoral process and good governance in Nigeria. While he noted that lack of active participation of organised labour in Nigerian politics has continued to generate a lot of concern amongst trade unionists, scholars, political class, opinion leaders and other commentators, he stated that organised labour has not successfully tapped into the opportunity provided in a liberal democracy which emphasises grassroots participation and negotiation of interest. “This time around we are coming in full force.To start with, what we lack is political education but some of us have acquired political education over the years and we are going to use them in our various engagements.” Responding to questions from journalists, he said that all organs of the TUC have approved the new political direction. “As a key and leading actor in the struggle for democracy during the military rule, organised labour and other pro-labour social movements are better equipped through engagement with other genuine change seeking Nigerians to provide the political and leadership alternative the Nigeria masses deserve for transformative governance. “The organised labour is capable of enthroning social democracy in Nigeria. We can bring governance closer to the people. It has become glaring that constant labour agitations either in form of street protest or strike action cannot guarantee decent work, good governance and social justice in a political environment that is self-serving and insensitive to the plight of the workers and citizens in general.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.