Lawmaker representing Oyo Central Senatorial District and Chairman, Senate Committee on Local Content, Senator Teslim Folarin has stressed the importance of farming as one of the major drivers of the country’s economy, noting that the nation’s journey to economic prosperity can only be accomplished through proper training and funding of the agricultural sector. Senator Folarin stated this in Ibadan recently, during the closing ceremony of a three-day empowerment training tagged: Provision and Adoption of Post-Harvest Techniques for Rural Farmers organised in conjunction with the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA). The programme, which held simultaneously at Jesus The Rock Event Centre in Ona-Ara Local Government Area and Opete Town Hall in Ogo-Oluwa Local Goverment Area of Oyo State, had 500 farmers drawn from Ibadan and Ogbomoso zones of Oyo Central Senatorial District, provided beneficiaries with training on modern post-harvest techniques for grading, storage and transportation of farm produce to desired locations. Senator Folarin while admonishing participants to improve on their expertise, stated that the empowerment programme was facilitated to ensure that his constituents were not denied the knowledge of modern and innovative farming techniques that would improve their efficiency. He said: “I am delighted that all of you are willing to contribute to the nation’s food security. I have no doubt that this training has equipped you with the needed skills that will launch you into sustainable large scale farming through quality preservative measures. Apart from the provision of raw materials for industrial use, agriculture remains one of the biggest sources of employment globally. So, I must ensure that my people are not restricted to traditional farming practices. “I want the skills garnered in this training to translate to increased profit and productivity. After 6 months, I will embark on the evaluation of all participants of this programme, and I promise everyone that makes good use of the training an additional cash grant of 200,000 naira each to further improve their proficiency and economic status,” he concluded. High point of the event was the presentation of certificates, food preservative tools worth 15 million naira and a sum of 50,000 naira each to 500 rural farmers to bolster their farming business. The beneficiaries were also treated to sumptuous breakfast and lunch throughout the days of the seminar and empowerment programme. Folarin while recalling that Oyo zone had benefitted from same programme in November 2021, pledged to continue to facilitate masses-oriented projects and empowerment programmes. Participants drawn from Afijio, Atiba, Oyo East and Oyo West Local Government Areas were trained at IPMAN Event Centre. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details