A legal and humanitarian right advocate (Lawyers Alert), has called on the presidency and National Assembly to give victims of tuberculosis in Nigeria a lifeline by domesticating their rights in line with the Declaration of the Rights of People Affected by Tuberculosis that was launched in Geneva, Switzerland in May 2019. Lawyers Alert, who decried the height of discrimination and abuse meted on Nigerians who suffers from tuberculosis both in hospitals and in the larger society, went on to enjoin the Federal government to ensure that TB patients are not abandoned to their fate by tackling the disease on humanitarian basis. Addressing journalists in Abuja as part of its activities to mark the 2022 World TB Day, President of Lawyers Alert, Barr. Rommy Mom, said for Nigeria to achieve a society where the rights of PATB are guaranteed; the government, right-based non-governmental organizations, and all stakeholders must make concerted efforts to ensure: “The incorporations of the rights of PATB as enshrined in the Declaration of the Rights of People Affected by Tuberculosis launched in Geneva, Switzerland in May 2019 into our local laws. “The sensitization of both the judiciary and the legal communities about the rights of PATB and the implementation of the human rights-based approaches to TB. The expansion of the capacity of legislators and policymakers to incorporate human rights-based approaches into TB laws and policies. The immediate and rigorous sensitization of PATB and its various communities and networks to be aware of their rights and demand for same at all times. “The sensitization of health care workers in the public and private sectors on the need to integrate a human rights-based approach to TB in their day-to-day interactions with PATB. The passage of TB-specific law in Nigeria to cater for the rights of PATB, discourage stigma and discrimination and increase access to health care services among others.” Furthermore, Barr Mom call for the establishment of an agency that will solely be in charge of TB in Nigeria, even as appealed to the National Assembly to pass laws that will address the rights of People Affected by Tuberculosis (PATB) and therefore, prevent stigma and discrimination being mated against them. Mom, lamented that PATB experience the infringement of their human rights on a daily basis and said; “they are given less than human treatments both in private and public places. “They lack access to effective testing and treatment, face discrimination in employment and health care settings, are even unnecessarily detained and isolated against their will, have restricted access to health information and are given little or no access to TB treatment in hospital,” he said. Speaking on the gender perspective, Barrister Mom said; “Globally, men and boys account for about 64 per cent of TB cases. What this translated to is that approximately 2 men become infected with TB for every 1 woman or girl. Also, men account for about 63 per cent of TB deaths among HIV negative people.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  TB patients rights in Nigeria  TB patients rights in Nigeria  TB patients rights in Nigeria  TB patients rights in Nigeria ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details