The Vice-Chancellor of the Ekiti State University (EKSU) Ado-Ekiti, Professor Edward Olanipekun has revealed that the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele would deliver the convocation and fortieth-anniversary lecture of the university. The VC who spoke on Wednesday while addressing newsmen ahead of the combined 25th and 26th convocation and the 40th anniversary of the university said that the lecture titled, ‘The Role of Central Banks in Managing Economic Downturns’ will be delivered by the CBN boss next week Monday. He disclosed that a former Osun State governor, Chief Bisi Akande; former president of the Nigeria Bar Association, Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN; human rights lawyer, Femi Falani, SAN alongside Godwin Emefiele and other prominent citizens of the country would be conferred with the institution’s awards during the ceremony on Wednesday, March 30. Olanipekun also revealed that a total of 278 graduates of EKSU, would be conferred with First class honours as the institution graduates 16,433 at its combined convocation ceremonies. The VC threatened that the management would deal decisively with any professor found culpable of plagiarism and sexual harassment offences. Speaking on the zero-tolerance he has for fraud and sexual molestations, the Professor of Industrial Chemistry, said, “That you are a Professor doesn’t mean if you commit plagiarism or rape or other crimes, we will gloss over it, no. “The era of impunity can’t return again here, we won’t allow it. Nobody is above the law. Even some of the students who committed infraction were either suspended or dismissed accordingly.” He noted that with the continued support from the state government and other stakeholders, the university has moved from the 157th position it was three years ago to 14th in the latest Webometric ranking of universities and as well the second best university in the country. “No doubt, EKSU is forging ahead and our alumni are breaking new grounds. This is in tandem with the vision and mission of Ekiti State University which is to produce men and women of honour equipped with qualitative education, strong character, high level of morality and integrity,” he said. On the lingering nationwide strike embarked on by the Academic Staff Union of Universities(ASUU), Olanipekun appealed to the government and other unions in the universities to embrace dialogue, saying the country can’t afford to shut down after the COVID-19 lockdown. Reeling out the impressive strides recorded by the university, Olanipekun said 67 out of the 81 academic programmes being undertaken by the institution, had been accorded full accreditation by the National Universities Commission (NUC). “Only one programme (1.23%) has interim accreditation while the balance of 13 (16.05%) programmes are new academic disciplines which are not yet matured for accreditation by the regulatory body. “Apart from the foregoing, all our professional programmes have full accreditation namely from the Council of for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria(COREN), Institute of Chartered Accountants(ICAN) and Council of Legal Education of Nigeria, among others,” the VC said. Despite initial snags caused by lack of funding and non-accreditation, thereby stagnating the running of the programme for years, Olanipekun revealed that 166 medical students had been inducted into the College of Medicine by Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCAN). Olanipekun added that the university is improving on the development of ICT Infrastructure, with WiFi transmission covering over 20 kilometres radius, applauding the government for enlisting EKSU as one of the institutions that would be covered under the Independent Power Plant project. Confirming that the internally generated revenue of the university had been prudently appropriated, Olanipekun stated that proceeds were expended on the construction of skills acquisition and entrepreneurship study centre, an extension of the EKSU water factory and asphalting of a linkage road from College of Medicine to the sandwich village at Irasa. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details