Edo State Police Command, on Thursday, confirmed the arrest of some policemen, who were seen in a viral video, assaulting a civilian at the PZ axis of Sapele Road, Benin City, Edo State capital. The Command, in a statement endorsed by the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Bello Kontongs, stated that the officers involved in the assault, an Inspector and three others, had been “identified, arrested and subsequently defaulted.” The police four-paragraph statement reads: “The attention of the Edo state police command has been drawn to a viral video capturing the unprofessional conducts of its personnel at PZ area along Benin-Sapele Road, Benin City. “The team made up of an Inspector and three others who were involved in the unprofessional conduct and incivility against two young men as seen in the viral video, have been identified, arrested and subsequently defaulted. “The Commissioner of Police frowns and unreservedly condemns the act and has ordered a full-scale investigation and assuring that the outcome of the investigation would be carried out to the latter and as well communicated to the public without reservation. “The CP further assures members of the public of their safety and employs them to make it duty-bound to always report unwholesome/ unprofessional conduct of personnel of the command.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Edo Police confirm arrest of officer involved in civilian assault in Benin Edo Police confirm arrest of officer involved in civilian assault in Benin ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.