The Oyo State Council of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) has expressed gratitude to the Governing Council and the Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, for appointing Professor Muyiwa Popoola as the Deputy Vice- Chancellor of the university. The Union verbalized its appreciation recently when a delegation, led by the Chairman of the State Chapter Comrade Ademola Babalola, paid a courtesy visit to the vice-chancellor. The union, speaking through its chairman, said it was delighted that a distinguished member of the union was appointed to the exalted position. The chairman noted that the choice of Prof Popoola was a step in the right direction, stating that he would bring his experience as an expert in journalism and media to bear on the job. In the chairman’s words, “He is our teacher, having taught some of our members. He is our member in the profession too. We are happy that one of us has been appointed to this position. We have come to say thank you to the university and pledge our support to the management.” The Vice-Chancellor in his response also thanked the council for the visit, and hoped that the visit would mark the beginning of greater collaboration between the University and the Council. He hinted at the infrastructural developments in the University under his watch, some of which include new bakery, new bottling machine for the water factory, welcome centre, twin duplex for principal officers, new laboratories and others. He said the physical development effort materialized because funds of the University are carefully and prudently managed. “We do not use contractors here. We do direct labour. When I told members of the Governing Council of the university how much it cost us to build the twin duplexes, they were surprised that we could achieve such with minimal funds. I hope that when you come for our next convocation you will see new things,” Professor Adebayo said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The vice-chancellor did not mince words on the need for the government to allow private universities access Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), stating that they were rendering a vital service to the society, given the fact that the money is collected from the public which is why they should be meant to have access to it. He solicited the advocacy of the media on the matter, stating that the private universities would achieve a lot if they benefit from the TETFUND. In his vote of thanks, the DVC, Prof Poppola, expressed gratitude to the vice-chancellor for finding him worthy of serving the university in that capacity. He said he could not have emerged as the deputy vice-chancellor if the VC did not want to work with him. He promised to do his best in supporting the vice-chancellor to take the university to greater heights. He thanked the Oyo State Council of the NUJ profoundly for deeming it fit to thank the vice- Chancellor for acknowledging his (Prof Popoola’s) worth. Other members of the university management namely Registrar, Dr. J.E.T. Babatola; Bursar, Mr. John Olusanwo; Librarian, Dr Beatrice Fabunmi, were on hand to receive the NUJ team. Those in the NUJ delegation include Mr. Sola Oladapo (Secretary), Akeem Abas (Treasurer), Gbemiga Bamidele (Former National Deputy Secretary) and Femi Atoyebi. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.