SAUDI Arabia’s humanitarian organisation, King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre (KSrelief), in conjunction with Abibakr As-Sidiq Philanthropic Home (ASPH), has announced plan to feed 12,600 Nigerians in the forthcoming fasting month of Ramadan. ASPH had, Thursday last week, signed an implementation agreement with KSrelief to distribute food baskets to 2,300 households in Nigeria during the period. The project is expected to feed no fewer than 12,600 extremely poor Nigerian Muslims or those that may not be able to afford food. The agreement was signed by representatives of KSrelief and ASPH in Abuja. The beneficiaries of the project will be those who have been affected severely by the impact of food insecurity in Nigeria. Twelve local government areas in Kwara and Kano states as well as Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Abuja are also expected to benefit from the scheme. Mr AbdulKarim bin Abdulmohsen Al-Yousef and Mr Sultan Mohammed Saleh, the representatives of KSrelief and the vice president, special duties, of ASPH, who represented the president of the organisation, Malam Abdulrazzaq Ibrahim Salman, and the chief operating officer of ASPH, were present during signing of the agreement between both organisations. Salman expressed gratitude to KSrelief for bringing the project to Nigeria, saying that a lot of people in the country are having difficulty feeding themselves and their families. He noted that Nigeria was facing economic crisis which was making it more difficult for people to have access to basic needs such has food and expressed delight that a lot of people would benefit from the project. He thanked the entire people of Saudi Arabia who, he noted, have always been at the forefront of providing humanitarian aids to vulnerable people around the world. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.