The search for more golden ticket holders continued on the latest episode of the Nigerian Idol auditions, which aired last Sunday on Africa Magic Showcase, Urban and Family. Contestants on this episode trooped in excitedly and ready to impress the judges, however not all were able to achieve this. Osemeke’s performance of Lady Gaga’s ‘You and I’ fell short of the judges’ standard, as he was visibly off-key throughout his performance. Omawunmi advised him to work on his vocal control, although the judges could not deny that he looked fly in his outfit. On the flip side, some contestants came ready to snag home the golden ticket, and they definitely did with the exciting renditions for the night. One of the contestants that stood out was 30-year-old Isioma. She gave a stellar performance of FAVE’s ‘Baby Riddim’ that earned her three ‘yeses’ from the judges, including D’banj’s now-famous remark – “Your face show, your shoeshine”. Her confidence and talent gained her instant fans on social media and the moniker, ‘Queen of vibe’. For the next round of auditions, Afrojazz singer, Yinka Davies, joined Obi Asika and D’banj as a guest judge on the show, which is sponsored by Binance and Bigi. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Yinka Davies is a singer, dancer, painter and an actor who has been a prominent part of the Nigerian entertainment industry for three decades. She is also one of the longest-serving judges in the history of Nigerian Idol. She started her judging duties when the show launched in 2010 and stayed on for another four seasons. As a seasoned judge, some of her remarks for the night were very delightful, like when she told Remi that with a voice like his, he’s well on his way to becoming a superstar. And for the not so great performances, Yinka Davies always let them down subtly. At the end of the show, four contestants were selected for the ‘Chorus line audition’ to give them a chance to proceed to theatre week. After their audition, they were put in 3 different rooms one of which had the survivors’ room, but we will have to wait till next week to find out which contestant makes it to theatre week. Over the past four weeks, viewers from across Africa have witnessed many talented Nigerians audition to earn a place in the next round of the singing competition. 75 of these talents will proceed to the theatre week next Sunday, where they will battle each other to prove they have what it takes to make it to the next stage. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.