The Ogun State Bureau of Information Technology (BIT) has trained youths on over 20 different categories of ICT certificate programmes, so as to  expose them to unlimited wealth opportunities embedded in digitalised global economy, being the core vision of empowerment programmes of Prince Dapo Abiodun’s led administration. The Special Adviser to the governor on ICT, Mr. Dayo Abiodun, made this known at the Ogun TechHub in Abeokuta,Ogun State, during an interview with the Press Officer, Ogun TechHub, Mr. Ezema Olayinka, saying the Bureau’s ICT programmes had launch the State into great digital business opportunities that would make it a digital pacesetter. Abiodun said the training programmes among others were part of the ‘Building Our Future Together’ agenda of the government, in order to kick start massive capacity building in ICT having discovered that the people were not really exposed to the benefits and values of ICT. He said: “the giant strides that opened up the state into great ICT opportunities began with the berth of professional ICT collaboration with Cisco Academy and the eventual launch of Ogun TechHub where youths, women among others, have access to ICT training and other certificates that have turned hundreds into digital professionals. “Several support programmes were also organised for ICT startups to make them experts in building local solutions towards harnessing prospects of the Digital Economy.” Abiodun noted that the undaunted commitment of the present administration towards achieving its vision for empowering the youths as enshrined in “ISEYA” mantra led to the growing interest in developing the younger generations in ICT training programmes called Ogun Tech Kids, which trained over 150 students on Robotics, 3D Animations and Embedded Designing. Also speaking, the Special Assistant to the governor on ICT, Mr. Olakunle Akibola, said about 500 students had benefited from the state ICT summer coaching classes on WebApp development, Graphics, Animation and Algorithms organised particularly for students between the ages of 7-15 years, adding that another group of about 400 youths have also graduated from the Ogun TechHub Academy as cyber security experts, among others. He revealed that a quarterly coding programme was also initiated by Governor Dapo Abiodun for the female gender called ABOCODERS, where the participants were trained on Data Science, Machine Learning, Web development in order to make the younger women more economically productive and enterprising in all their chosen careers. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.