In this interview by ADEOLA OTEMADE, the CEO of Tianah Hair Beauty Empire, Akinwande Christianah, discusses her journey into the beauty world, her reasons for setting up a beauty business and the challenges therein.  You could have chosen a different career path; why beauty business as an entrepreneur? I love to look good and I decided to make business out of it. Firstly, almost every lady loves fashion: From hair to makeup to bags and othersthat defines us as women. I specialise majorly on wigs, and it has been all about my looks for me. I love to look good and smell nice. There is a saying that ‘you will be addressed the way you are dressed’ and this kind of guides my thinking about fashion. Meanwhile, one does not really need a large sum of money to look good, you do not need to spend a fortune before you look good. So for me, it’s all about my essence out there.  What are the challenges you have been facing as an entrepreneur and particularly, in your line of business? Constant hike in price of products is one of the challenges in the business. In addition, we are in a competitive world where everyone is struggling to meet up their target. The beauty industry has been saturated, there are lots of people in the business, so it’s competitive, and you have to step up your game so as to keep expanding and keep being relevant in the business.  Apart from being an enterpreneur, you live in an African society. Would you say the voice of the womenfolk is being heard as it should be in the society today? I will say yes, because over the years, women have proven that they can thrive in every facet of life. I know it could still be better, but it is now unlike years before, when women were treated as second class citizens, when women were made to believe that there are restrictions to their aspiration; with limitations and barriers to how far they can go in life. We have women taking up strong, sensitive political offices and prominent positions and are making names for themselves. So women are speaking out loud now and their voices are being heard more than before.  Can you share some of your experiences as an entrepreneur? Well it’s has been good but not without fair share of ups and downs. You have to be a very patient person to handle a business. Sometimes you get pissed off by some customers’ reaction towards the services you rendered to them, and this might be after you have put all your  energy, time and so on to satisfy them. So, in all it has been quite interesting and we keep learning as you get to deal with individuals of different personalities at every juncture.  How did your journey into the beauty industry begin. Is it what you set out to do or you found yourself in the trade by chance? I started as an undergraduate student, because then I used to see people, graduates for that matter, complaining and lamenting that there were no jobs in the country. Along the line I thought to myself that is what I might also be facing after completing my education. So, when I was in Part Three I made up my mind and went straight to learn a trade. I went to get a training in how to make hair as well as wig-making. I even enrolled in a place to learn tailoring. So, I can sew a bit. I did all these because I didn’t want to be unemployed after school and here I am today. With the help of God, I am making progress, I employ people and I train people too.  What motivates you as an individual? When I think of how far God has brought me in life, it gives me courage and motivation. I am kind of self-motivated.  There is a school of thought amongst a section of Nigerians that most ladies who run beauty businesses are working the street. What’s your reaction to this assumption? Well, you and I know that that assumption is not true. I can say that only people with low IQ will think like that because running a beauty empire requires patience, consistency and doggedness. So I do not subscribe to that thought. Most of us in this business are hardworking. However, it’s the way the society sees most ladies, and I believe it’s time those with that impression changed the narrative.  What advice do you have for ladies out there that are struggling to be independent? Don’t be afraid to start small. Even when people laugh at you, don’t stop. Keep moving, you will surely get there one day. Rome was not built in a day and tiny drops of water makes the mighty ocean. There are times one would get discouraged, tired, frustrated and you feel like giving up, but life needs consistency, be consistent and you would be surprised how far you can go.  How do you handle advances from the other gender as a lady? I respectfully set healthy boundaries  How do you think the beauty industry can improve? By constantly upgrading, improving personal skills and continuous research. Times are changing, the world is changing, there are many things we can do better, so there is the need to be ahead of one’s game, and to imbibe good qualities.  How do you intend to turn your business into a household name? I want to make Tianah Hair Beauty Empire to be more known as a brand for quality and affordable products in Nigeria and abroad. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details