A  haematologist, Professor Iheanyi Okpala says in doses given for sickle cell disease, children born of mothers with sickle cell disease who are on hydroxyurea have not been shown to have any abnormalities. Okpala, a consultant hematologist, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, at the sideline of the “Five decades of haematology teaching, research and practice in Nigeria” celebration at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, said hydroxyurea, a medication used only by those with the more severe sickle cell disease is not as poisonous as some people might think. According to him, “Sickle cell disease is a condition that makes people have a shortage of blood, it’s inherited. It is not just the red cells that carry oxygen, but also the white cells that participate in causing sickle cell disease. “Let me put it this way. High amount of sticky substances on the white blood cells and other cells gum together and block the flow of blood to various parts of the body. This is more in severe sickle cell disease. “Hydroxyurea is a slightly cytotoxic drug and it is used for treating cancers. That fact makes people a bit apprehensive when they are told they should be given hydroxyurea. In recognition of that situation, we do not really give hydroxyurea to everybody with sickle cell disease. We keep it for those who have more severe diseases. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Why is it difficult to get people to take hydroxyurea is a genuine question. It is because they are concerned that whether it will affect unborn babies. Children born of mothers with sickle cell disease who are on hydroxyurea have not been shown to have any abnormalities. Each treatment given by a doctor to a patient is done with the consent of the patient.” Professor Okpala said patients on hydroxyurea are monitored for the effects of the treatment, including its effect on the function of the liver and kidney on a regular basis. He added, “If any of these effects are considered a bit too much, they will either reduce the dose of the hydroxyurea or stop it altogether.” The medical expert said hydroxyurea does reduce the number of sickle cell disease crises from say like three or four times a year to about once a year. According to him, it also makes it less likely that the person will have complications of sickle cell disease, such as stroke, damage to the joints if treatment with hydroxyurea treatment is started early. Professor Okpala added, “it does not undo the complication that has already occurred. But it helps to prevent new ones from occurring.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.