I made a joke on my WhatsApp status a few weeks back, I said, “wise sayings should have a review panel that would check to see if a saying is still wise or not.” Due to the passage of time, some of the old sayings have failed the test.
Here is what the review team has to say. Excerpt. Akanji Victor If you love something, let it go. If it comes back, it was meant to be. If you let something go, it was probably for a good reason. Better to move forward without it than to live in limbo. You can love some things and hold on to it, gruesomely so.  Makinde Joseph Do something you love, and you’ll never work a day in your life. Now what used to bring me joy is miserable and I don’t have a backup career. I used to love music and kids. Became a music teacher. Well, I don’t hate kids but they aren’t all as cool as they once were. I did hate music for a while there. Now it’s very bleh. Doesn’t do a lot for me. Used to be pure magic. Kids deserve a music teacher who LOVES music like a normal as human being.  Kelvin Odulami Good things happen to good people. There is no bigger falsehood than this. Things happen to people, simple! There’s a verse that says something to the tune of “the rain falls on the just and unjust.” Which honestly, is more of the truth. Good things can happen to good people, but good things can also happen to bad people.  Money can’t buy happiness, but it sure as hell can pay off a lot of unhappiness. “Money can’t buy Happiness” I am of the opinion that whosoever invented this saying just did it to justify the misery and economic hardship they seemed to be going through. Money might not be able to buy happiness, but being broke isn’t going to buy happiness either. Money can’t buy happiness, but it sure as hell can pay off a lot of unhappiness. True, money won’t buy happiness, but it can buy the freedom, time and funds that allow me to pursue the things that do make me happy.  Tianah There’s no such thing as a stupid question. While I would absolutely rather be asked a question that sounds stupid than to have to fix somebody’s stupid mistake. If they actually need to know the answer, then the question wasn’t stupid. The person that asked it might be though. That said, there are actually stupid questions. A lady in my workplace once, very genuinely, asked my boss why they didn’t get Wonder Women to fight in WWII. “They could’ve ended the war so quickly.”  Cynthia Ekwere The customer is always right There are times when the customer is not right, and the customer must be taught this. I once had a team meeting with a VP of a very large company I worked at. During that meeting, one of my peers said “the customer is always right!” Honestly, I don’t even remember the context of the conversation, but our VP proceeded to ream my coworker for at least 30 minutes. It was uncomfortable. Basically, it came down to: “No, the customer is not always right, but it is our job to make our best effort to help them, even when they’re wrong. Just don’t lie to yourself.  Philip Azi Practice Makes Perfect The real saying should be “Practice Makes Permanent.” You can practice something the wrong way or practice something completely wrong altogether. No matter what it is, doing something over and over again solidifies it as a habit and you become stuck with whatever way you practised it. Yes, practice makes perfect if you are practicing the thing perfectly. But if you’re doing any step wrong, it’s not just practice that will fix it, it’s being capable and aware enough to see the error and changing your approach on the fly. Too many people are afraid of change and just charge through things thinking that they just need to be more aggressive when they really just need to stop, shift, and then practice the right way.  The saying is rife that breakfast is a national cake, it will go around. Next week, we answer the question “What is your experience with heartbreak?” To be part of the next edition, send your response to 08133601345 on WhatsApp. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.