A Federal High Court in Abuja has cleared Brig- Gen. Jafaru Mohammed of alleged money laundering charges. The trial Judge, Justice Nkeonye Maha ruled that Mohammed has no case before her with regards to the money laundering forfeiture case, where-in three companies had accused Mohammed of money laundering. Justice Maha made the pronouncement while ordering the forfeiture of 28 properties linked to Marhaba Event Place Limited, Aflac Plastics Limited, and Atlasfield Integrated Limited. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in an ex parte application on May 13, 2020, prayed the court to order an interim forfeiture of the properties. EFCC had argued that the properties were alleged proceeds of an unlawful activity carried out by the Brigadier General. However, the trial judge said the anti-graft agency failed to name Mohammed in the application. Justice Maha held: “I observed that the name of Gen. Jafaru Mohammed was never mentioned in the originating ex parte application. The respondent did not rebut this fact.” The judge said EFCC only named Mohammed in its exhibit and counter affidavit to the respondent. The affected parties have since appealed the judgement of the court and filed a stay of execution dated February 28, 2022. The companies are not only owned by Brig. Gen. Aminu-Kano Maude but with two other partners who are respected business moguls from both Kano and Nasarawa State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Court clears Gen. Jafaru  Court clears Gen. Jafaru Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Court clears Gen. Jafaru  Court clears Gen. Jafaru ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more