Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State, on Sunday, celebrated the 2022 “Mothering Sunday” with a special message to mothers to remain steadfast and be dutifully committed to building a better society. The ‘Mothering Sunday’ is celebrated globally every fourth Sunday of the lent period. Soludo, who spoke during a mass service held at the Governor’s Lodge, Awka, to celebrate the occasion, charged mothers not to relent in their efforts of raising morally upright and disciplined children who would make a better society tomorrow. Soludo remarked that to stop the moral decadence which had become so pervasive in society, mothers must rise to the occasion by inculcating the culture of sound moral upbringing and personal discipline in the youngsters. He said this is imperative so that the youngsters would grow up to live a better and more rewarding life and in the process build a safer society. He further emphasised that the essence of the occasion also called for sober reflection, especially in regards to parenting. He lamented a situation where the youths were now being deeply influenced by negative tendencies and a false sense of get-rich-quick attitude which has ruined a lot of the youths. “This get-rich-quick syndrome has resulted in senseless killings, drug abuse, mindless ritual killings, armed robbery and a host of other anti-social vices which have bedevilled the society,” Soludo said. The Governor, therefore, appealed to mothers to continue to play the role of a strong ‘moral purity’ for the family which the youths could emulate. The governor also used the occasion to again emphasise the need to put a stop to the Monday weekly sit-at-home which had taken enormous economic tolls on businesses and the economy of the state and the entire South-East. He reiterated that the continuous observance of the exercise was not only counterproductive but had greatly affected both the economic fortunes of the people and the state. He called for a complete change of orientation from the people as the task of building prosperous homeland beckons. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details