The immediate past Governor of Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, on Monday, said he rejoined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to join hands with other members of the party to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and rescue Nigeria from the ruling APC. Mimiko who stated this during the party’s stakeholders meeting in Akure, the state capital, condemned the deplorable state of affairs across the country which indicated the inability of the APC led Federal Government to provide effective leadership. Mimiko stressed the need to reverse the current situation by addressing the problem facing the country squarely saying only the PDP can be trusted and expected to turn around the country positively. He said: “I came back into the PDP so that we can work together to oust the APC and save our country from crashing into the deep. “We do this not out of grudge and malice with anybody but as a duty to work towards the defeat of the ruling party at both the State and federal levels to reclaim and rebuild our country. “This, however, will only be possible, if the PDP sheds all divisive garbs and works in the unity of purpose, conscientiously and committed to the cause of the highly pauperised masses.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The former governor, however, called on leaders and members of the party to work together as a family to be able to oust the APC in the State and help reclaim Nigeria from the underperforming APC-led federal government. He charged members to eschew division and sentiments and be focused on building consensus where such is possible and organise free and fair primaries “if that is the only option available. The prospects and fortunes of the party are more important than personal glory and division.” The communique of the party after the meeting read: “That the party should leverage on its strength and the influx of new members to reconfigure itself and reorganise for unity and collective progress. “That the party should work beyond fissures and cleavages and organise as one, towards rebuilding and reclaiming Ondo State and Nigeria from the underperforming APC. “That all leaders should mobilise from the unit, ward and local government area levels towards the victory of the party in subsequent elections. “That the State Executive Committee should create level playing grounds for all irrespective of their length of time of membership. “And that members should subscribe according to their capacities by making human and material contributions for the growth and upliftment of the party.” The stakeholders’ meeting which was chaired by the Chairman, PDP, Ondo State, Hon Fatai Adams, was attended by Agboola Ajayi, former State Chairmen of the party, Hon Ebenezer Alabi, Hon Engr Clement Faboyede, Eyitayo Jegede, Member of the National Assembly, Hon Kolade Akinjo, former Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Jumoke Akindele and current members of the State Assembly, State Executive Committee members of the party as well as select leaders from the 18 local government areas among many other leaders in attendance. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 2023: I rejoined PDP to oust APC, rescue Nigeria ― Mimiko 2023: I rejoined PDP to oust APC, rescue Nigeria ― Mimiko ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details