Twelve persons have been burnt to death in an accident that occured along Kano-Kaduna road on Monday. Four others were criticaly injured in the accident. An eyewitness said that the accident occurred around 3pm at Tsamawa town in Garun Malam local government area, Kano State. While confirming the development to journalists, the Spokesman of the Kano State Fire Service, Saminu Yusuf, said “our fire station at Kura LGA received an emergency call at about 15:00hrs from one Isah Mai Fetur, who reported a road accident/fire at Tsamawa Town in Garun Malam Local Government Area. “All victims rescued unconscious and found dead by the fire incident and we cannot identify their names and age due to the fire incident.’’ According to him, when “our men from Kura reached the area at about 15:12hrs and found that two commercial vehicles a Toyota Haice bus collided with J5 and all with unknown registration numbers were engulfed by fire. He disclosed that 12 people were killed – 11 from the Haice bus which is headed from Zaria road to Kano, and one person inside the J5 which is headed from Kano to Kaduna. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.