No fewer than six persons, among whom were a couple, have been confirmed dead, in a fatal road accident in Delta State. The incident happened on Wednesday morning along the dangerous Eku/Abraka road by Oha Secondary School in the Okpe Local Government Area of the state. Witnesses said the accident involved an ash-coloured Lexus 330 with Reg. No. TJK203HG (Lagos) and a dark green Toyota Picnic, a commercial vehicle with Reg. No. KPE 778AA. Our correspondent gathered that the Lexus 330 was at top speed and was headed towards Warri with a suspected ‘Yahoo’ boy behind the wheels. He reportedly lost control and rammed the Toyota Picnic, a commercial vehicle which was headed to Abraka, the university community. All the occupants of the commercial Toyota Picnic – the couple, and driver of the commercial vehicle, died on the spot as the vehicle was squeezed beyond recognition, while the occupants of the Lexus 330 reportedly survived the crash. Although no official reaction could be obtained, operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and the Nigeria Police, Delta Command, had since evacuated the corpses to the nearest morgue. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Couple, driver, three others killed in Delta autocrash Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Couple, driver, three others killed in Delta autocrash ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details