Suspected armed robbers early hours of Sunday reportedly killed a businessman identified as Jonah Onche at Naka, headquarters of Gwer West local government area of Benue State. Tribune Online learnt that one of the robbers, a son of a pastor was also killed in the process of robbing their victim. Source from Naka explained that the suspected robbers had stormed the residence of the businessman in the early hours of Sunday. Chairman of Gwer West local government, Mrs Grace Igbabon who confirmed the incident said the DPO in the local government was on top of the situation. The council boss who spoke through phone to newsmen on Sunday said that the suspected robbers were known cultists and had been terrorising the Makurdi/Naka/Adoka road for some time. According to her, “the report I heard is that two robbers went to the businessman’s house and scaled the fence. “When they entered, they asked the businessman to bring the money in his house, he brought the money and pleaded with them not to kill him. “But one of the robbers collected the money and shot the man in the chest, the other robber who saw what happened shot his colleague and made away with the money. “The robber that was killed is a pastor’s son, they were actually three gang members but only two went for that operation on Sunday. The chairman who said that policemen had launched a manhunt for the arrest of the suspected robbers said that the three suspects started off as cultists before they moved on to be robbers. When contacted, the Command Spokesperson, SP Catherine Anene said she was yet to receive information about the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.