Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has vowed that no stones will be left unturned in the investigations and arrest of everyone found culpable in the kidnap and death of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwole, a 22-year-old fashion designer who boarded a BRT bus from Ajah to Oshodi on 26th February 2022 and was reported missing before her corpse was later discovered on Monday. Governor Sanwo-Olu gave the vow Monday night in a statement made available to newsmen, even as he commiserated with the Bamise family and their loved ones, saying his thoughts and prayers were with them during this difficult time. The governor, while assuring that the life of every citizen of the state matters to his government and does not take the security of the people for granted, disclosed that the BRT bus driver involved in this unfortunate incident had been arrested, saying the management of Lagos Bus Service Ltd had been directed to cooperate fully with security agencies in their investigations so that the full weight of the law was brought down on everyone involved in this ugly incident. “Dear Lagosians, the life of every citizen of the state matters to us, and we do not take the security of our people for granted. “We will therefore leave no stones unturned in the investigations and arrest of everyone found culpable in the kidnap and death of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwole. “The driver of the BRT bus involved in this unfortunate incident has been arrested, and the management of Lagos Bus Service Ltd have been directed to cooperate fully with security agencies in their investigations so that the full weight of the law is brought down on everyone involved in this ugly incident. “To Bamise’s family and loved ones, my thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult time, may the Almighty God console you. I hereby give you my word that justice will be served,” Sanwo-Olu said. Governor Sanwo-Olu further assured that he was following all the investigations closely, and would ensure that Bamise get the justice she deserved, adding: “I also assure you all that the BRT services remain safe, despite this condemnable act.” He once again expressed his sincere condolences to the Ayanwole family on the loss, praying God to rest the soul of their deceased daughter. “Once again, my sincere condolences to the Ayanwole family. May Oluwabamise’s soul rest in peace. Amen,” Sanwo-Olu prayed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  We’ll leave no stones unturned in bringing justice to BRT victim, Sanwo-Olu vows We’ll leave no stones unturned in bringing justice to BRT victim, Sanwo-Olu vows We’ll leave no stones unturned in bringing justice to BRT victim, Sanwo-Olu vows  We’ll leave no stones unturned in bringing justice to BRT victim, Sanwo-Olu vows ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more