Hundreds of members and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Thursday, thronged the historic Mapo Hall, Ibadan, where founder, DAKA Foundation, Dr Adesina Abidikugu, declared his ambition to seek the PDP ticket to contest for the Ibadan South-East/Ibadan North-East federal constituency seat in the 2023 general election. Present at the declaration were Chairman, Ibadan South-East local government, Mr Emmanuel Alawode, leaders and stalwarts of the party across both Ibadan South East and Ibadan North-East local government areas. Addressing the supporters, Abidikugu explained that his decision to contest for the House of Representatives seat is informed by his observation of a lot of misrepresentation in the legislative arm of government and poor accessibility of constituents to their representatives. In committing to efficient representation, Abidikugu promised to hold regular constituency meetings, such that only specific needs demanded by his constituents are promoted on the floor of the House of Representatives. Aside from assuring quality representation, Abidikugu assured of programmes in education, health, empowerment of widows and youths. He noted that the various programmes of his DAKA foundation, thus far, include, the presentation of cash gifts to widows and youths, sponsoring free eye surgeries, funding treatment for malaria, diabetes, hypertension, cataract and other health issues were only a tip of the iceberg if elected member representing Ibadan South-East/Ibadan North-East in the 2023 general election. Abidikugu said: “What informed my decision is that 2023 is very important for the nation and we need to get it right. There is a lot of misrepresentation in the legislative arm. People don’t have access to them. I assure you of accessibility. With accessibility, you know where the shoe pinches. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “I will be there every time for the people to listen to their problems. My vision is to give them real representation based on what we need within the federal constituency. “I will meet with them every time and then listen to their problems. With that, I will be armed to go to Abuja to give them proper representation based on what we need within the constituency. “I am bringing accessibility to the people. The story we get is that we don’t see our representative. I am assuring the people that if given the opportunity to represent them, I assure them of accessibility.” In his remarks, the Chairman, Ibadan South East Local Government, Mr Emmanuel Alawode declared that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is retrogressing while the PDP is progressing in the Ibadan South-East/Ibadan North-East federal constituency. He called on leaders and members of the PDP to rally round Abidikugu in his ambition while praying that God’s will be done. Persons like Jimoh Taiwo, Idowu Lawal, Adejare Hakeem, Samuel Taiwo, who had benefited from the various programmes of DAKA foundation, appreciated the founder, Abidikugu, while praying for him to record success in his House of Representatives seat quest. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details