THE Muslim Congress (TMC) has commended the police high command for allowing Muslim female personnel who so desire to wear head covers, a sort of hijab, in deference to the dictate of Islam. In a statement signed by its amir (president), Alhaji AbdulWasiu Bangbala, TMC said with this move, the police had proven that they were changing with the times as a number of police and military organisations across the world that have modified their uniforms to accommodate the hijab in recognition of the diverse backgrounds of their workforce. The organisation praised the courage of the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, in sanctioning the new dress code and urged the authorities not to give in to “the machinations of naysayers who are already calling for the decision to be rescinded.” It said “it is not surprising that the whimper of protest against the newly approved dress code is coming from some elements who only revel in stoking up hysteria that touches on our socio-political fault lines.” The statement reads in part: “In the West that is often considered a paradigm of near-perfect system, the use of head covers by female Muslim officers has become commonplace under revised uniform rules that now allow for every qualified  officer to serve regardless of their faith background. “The decision approving the wearing of the hijab as part of uniform of female Muslim officers is indeed a welcome development and even more symbolic given that the wearing of hijab these days, rather than being a symbol of faith and piety, has, ironically, become a trigger for discrimination and abuse of Muslim women. “This decision, therefore, highlights that wearing the hijab is an exercise of Muslim women’s freedom of religion and free expression as constitutionally enshrined as part of their inalienable rights. “It is important that anyone who has a calling to serve and protect the lives and properties of Nigerians and passes the rigorous recruitment and police training standards feels welcome and not discriminated against regardless of their faith, tribe or culture.” “This new policy needs not be viewed from being a symbolic and politically correct alone but as part of the larger effort to create a truly inclusive society where religion and culture are respected and protected, thereby forming a truly civil and peaceful society. “We are assured that Muslim women in the police force will continue to prove their mettle, disprove some of the baseless notions seemingly portraying the head cover or hijab as a fly in the ointment. “We implore our Muslim female officers to continue to maintain a high sense of modesty and professionalism not just with their newly approved uniform but also in discharging their duties. “They must continue to endeavour to bring their faith-inspired personal qualities into policing the communities while promoting the interest of the country at all times.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity