Bauchi State Command of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed that a lone ghastly motor accident that occurred Friday evening in Kurosha village, Ganjuwa LGA of Bauchi State has claimed 3 lives while 16 others were injured. The confirmation was contained in a report from the Ganjuwa LGA Station office of the FRSC stating that the accident occurred at about 1813hrs of Friday and was reported at 1820hrs while operatives arrived at the scene for rescue operation at 1828hrs barely 8 minutes after the report was received. The RTC signed by DRC KM Chadi, STO of Ganjuwa LGA and endorsed by the NPF, Kafin Madaki Division contained that the accident involving a Toyota Hiace commercial bus belonging to the fleet of Jigawa Sunrise occurred at Kurosha village, 1km away from Gadar Maiwa in Ningi LGA of Bauchi State along the ever-busy Bauchi-Kano highway. According to the FRSC, the cause of the accident was speed limit violation (SPV) and loss of control (LOC) by the driver whose name could not be immediately ascertained. A total of 20 passengers, 18 male adults, 1 female adult and 1 female child were involved in the accident out of which 16 comprising 15 male adults and 1 female adult were injured at various degrees. All the accident victims including the dead were evacuated to Ningi General Hospital for treatment and confirmation of death after which the corpses were deposited at the mortuary. The confirmation was jointly done by the FRSC STO in Ningi headed by DRC KM Chadi, STO of Ganjuwa LGA and the NPF, Kafin Madaki Division. The FRSC therefore warned road users particularly commercial drivers to always adhere to the speed limit provision in order to minimize casualties in the cause of the accident.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team