The non-passage of the Gender Equality Bill by the National Assembly has stirred up controversy among womenfolk nationwide. The bill which is aimed at giving women equal chances in elective and non-elective positions has suffered a serious setback at the National Assembly. Tribune Online reliably gathered that women groups nationwide are now mobilizing their members for what they described as the mother of all protest at the National Assembly complex on Tuesday. The protest is aimed at condemning the decision of the National Assembly on the gender equality bill. Some of the women who preferred conditions of anonymity stressed the need for women to be given equal chances like their men counterparts. According to them, we are being used as tissue paper by men to achieve their political ambitions. Numerically, we are more in numbers but this has not translated to our victory in any election as we are being muscled out by men. The initiator of the gender equality bill meant well for women in the Country but fellow legislators are seeing us as a threat. We are not going to be violent in pressing home our demand. What we are saying is that National Assembly should revisit the bill. When you take a look at what is going on in our states, the majority of them are paying lip service to 35% of women in affirmative action. We can no longer play a second fiddle. We are all citizens of this Country. It is not about gender but delivering of quality. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.