As the music industry continues to expand, new music acts with big dreams have equally been emerging on the music scene, sharing their passion and readiness to make their mark through their songs and stage presence. One of such artistes who seems ready to take his music game to newer heights is budding singer and songwriter, Duru Francis Nnaemeka, famous as Duru. Describing himself as one of the artistes to watch out for on the music scene in an interview with Tribune Online, Duru, who said his passion for music and the popular Afrobeat genre propelled him to give music a chance, insisting that though competition may be rife in the industry, he has what it takes to be one of the next rated Nigerian pop stars. Speaking about how he intends to break into the very competitive industry, Duru disclosed that he has always been “walking the talk as far as music is concerned and I am ready to show the world that beyond songwriting, I am blessed with lyrical strength that will tower me above others in the game.” With new audio and video being prepared to delight his fans, the singer recalled how his music journey was borne out of hard work, diligence as well as experience, which according to him shaped his approach to music. Duru, who has already begun to make bold moves with his music said that his dream has always been to be one of the leading artistes in the music industry and with where he is in his career, it already seems like he’s living up to his dreams. Asked about his debut track,  the singer simply called it ‘Follow Me’ – something from the genre he has chosen to explore. While considering himself as one of the best in the music industry, the singer pointed out the fact that the journey so far was borne out of years of hard work and diligence, as well as the experiences that shaped his career. He added that “The journey has been long and rough just as it has transformed to being something we are worthy to make memories of and tell stories about. As for challenges, I will want you to bear in mind that life itself is a challenge. Then, I am also of the opinion that every occupation has its challenges, usually unavoidable.” Beyond music, Duru is also making an impact in the real business as adds that “As a musician and even as a realtor, there are quite a handful of challenges. But, there’s no gain in stating them. What is best is growing stronger to be able to manage them and that’s what we do by the day – to improve and redefine our acts.” With his music, ambition and passion coming to play, the singer seems to have mastered the art and craft of making good music and keeping his fans satisfied.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity