Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) and gubernatorial hopeful for Ebonyi State, under the All Progressives Congress (APC) platform, Engr. Elias Mbam has released his education plan for the state. This was made known through a communique recently released by his chief press secretary (CPS), Obinna Udenwe. According to Udenwe, the RMAFC boss has assembled a team of professionals drawn from international agencies, civil society organisations, academia, and the media to develop a road map for the state to be called ‘The Ebonyi Dream’. He added that the road map, among many things, will lead to a futuristic, functional and affordable education that will capacitate children and youth in the state to compete favourably in the present and emerging local and global workspace. Udenwe stated that Mbam will actualise this plan by integrating various plans, visions, missions and developmental strategies of past and current leaders of the state to produce a policy master plan for the state. “Today we are operating in a world without boundaries, that is highly competitive,” Mbam said, “and for our children to survive in it, we must equip them with appropriate knowledge, values, skills and competencies required by the current world of work.” According to the communique, Mbam intends to engage experienced and skilled professionals, review the total number of basic and secondary schools, and provide functional schools, particularly in areas of inadequacy. The plan will ensure systems strengthening and organisational development of basic education using experienced educational consultants and professionals. The plan will introduce a robust scheme that enables the best brains from Ebonyi (over a hundred annually), to access local and overseas education for masters and PhD programmes in major disciplines, such that in five years, the state will boast of seasoned academics to take over the various sectors of state’s development. Also, the plan will ensure curriculum development and enhancement of learning outcomes using skilled and experienced professionals that will ensure the harmonisation of both public and private schools. Furthermore, the plan will commit a great percentage of state resources to teachers’ professional development and quality assurance through teachers’ training and improvement in conditions of service. Finally, the plan will ensure steady and continuous engagement with key stakeholders, including the private sector, civil society organisations, international development agencies, and philanthropists in providing educational services in the state. According to Udenwe, some citizens and stakeholders in the state who have seen the road map expressed optimism in Mbam’s leadership quality. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details