A 2023 governorship aspirant in Ebonyi State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Elias Nnanna Igwe, has commended Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee, on the efforts so far in the preparation for the national convention of the party billed for Saturday, March 26, 2022. A statement released by Dr Igwe on Thursday said he was highly optimistic that the convention would be hitch-free and successful, adding that those expecting the implosion of the APC after the convention would be shocked and disappointed. According to him, with what is in place so far, in terms of the preparations, I have no doubt, the convention will be a huge success. “I have keenly monitored the preparations by Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee, ahead of the convention scheduled for Saturday, March 26, 2022, and wish to commend the committee very highly, for doing a great job. The committee, in my personal rating, has recorded 80 percent success. “This imminent success of the convention, no doubt, is going to be a shocker and disappointment to the doomsayers who had predicted that the APC would not be able to hold a successful convention without the Party suffering implosion,” Igwe said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for the firm and sterling leadership, adding that the president had shown in ensuring that the APC is united, ahead of the convention; and urged all the party leaders to heed the wise counsels of the President, which he said, were in the best interest of the party. The governorship hopeful also charged other leaders of the party, especially the governors to close ranks irrespective of their personal interests and ambitions to achieve a successful convention on Saturday. “It’s pertinent at this stage for all the leaders of our great party, especially the governors to close ranks and see to the success of the convention, irrespective of their personal interests and ambitions. Because, if we fail to get it right through the convention, it may have a serious negative effect on the success of the APC in the 2023 general elections,” he opined. Dr Nnanna further noted that with leaders of outstanding qualities such as Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State as members of the convention planning subcommittees, he was not expecting anything less than 100% success at the end of the exercise. While describing Governor Umahi as a role model and a leading example in good leadership, Igwe commended the governor for the harmonious and rancour-free manner, he was able to handle the activities leading to the Saturday’s convention within the APC family in Ebonyi State and called on other Governors and leaders of the Party to emulate him. “I, therefore, seize this opportunity to wish all delegates, especially the contingent from Ebonyi State, a hitch-free and successful outing, on Saturday, at Eagle’s Square, Abuja, venue of the APC national convention,” Igwe concluded. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details