The Emir of Katsina, Alh. Abdulmumini Kabir, has indicated his support for Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidency ambition. He disclosed this while receiving a high-powered delegation of the Arewa Organizations Movement in support of Tinubu’s presidential ambition that paid a courtesy visit to his palace on Friday evening in Katsina. The Emir said that Tinubu is a competent person that would deliver dividends of democracy to Nigerians. According him, “Tinubu is a material that has the capacity to salvage Nigerians from their present economic, social, and security predicaments. “I know Asiwaju several years ago as he has closed affinity with my late father, the Emir of Katsina, Alh Muhammad Kabir Usman.” “We consider Tinubu as a Katsina indigene as we have a long-standing relationship with him. “We are hundred percent in support of him,” he said. The Emir called on other Nigerians to support him considering his wealth of experience in administration. Earlier, the leader of the delegation, former National Assembly Member, Senator Abu Ibrahim had told the Emir that they were going round to canvass for the support of Nigerians to give chance to their friend and mentor. Abu Ibrahim pledged that Senator Tinubu will solve the nation’s problems while in office if given the chance. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.