Residents of the Danmani community a suburb of Kaduna went berserk when a suspected Improvised Explosives Devices (IEDs) exploded on Friday afternoon forcing residents in the area to flee for safety. Eyewitness who pleaded for anonymity remarked that the incident occurred in the shop of an POS operator near Abubakar Sadiq Mosque in the area. ‎” We just heard a loud sound bang! We all came out from our houses and saw the POS shop in flames. ‘The operator was rescued and later rushed to the hospital for treatment because his legs and finger nails were badly affected. While three others also sustained injuries. It was also learnt that a team of anti-bomb squad who came to the scene detonated another explosive planted in the same vicinity. As at the time of filing the report, the state government and State Police are yet to comment on the incident. The explosion was coming barely a month when an explosion rocked a hotel at Nnamdi Azikwe Western Bye pass wan other IEDs that was detonated in another hotel at Kabala West. A statement issued by the commissioner for Internal security and Home Affairs, last month advised residents to be mindful of their environment especially in areas school, places of worship, beer parlour etc. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital.  Again, explosion rocks Kaduna community  Again, explosion rocks Kaduna community  Again, explosion rocks Kaduna community  Again, explosion rocks Kaduna community ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details