The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola has dispelled media reports that a police vehicle in his convoy was involved in an accident in Asaba, Delta State during the inspection of the second Niger bridge on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters shortly after the inauguration of the 68 units of housing executed by the federal government at Issele Azagba, Delta State on Thursday, the minister said: “It is unfortunate that some sections of the media choose to tell sensational premium lies.” “Yes, we were in Asaba on Tuesday, me, the Chief of Staff to Mr President, Ibrahim Gambari; the Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige, who is an indigene of Anambra State, to physically assess development at the Second Niger Bridge. “We were not involved in any accident. “We returned to Abuja safely on the same day and we all participated in the Federal Executive Council meeting on Wednesday,” Fashola said. According to him, “It was after we left the meeting that we got word that there was a social media report that my convoy was involved in an accident. “But when I investigated, it turns out that members of the Police Command in Anambra State, who came to provide support because the Chief of Staff to the President was in town and the project we came to investigate transverse Anambra and Delta States. “Unfortunately on their way back, they had an accident, but thankfully, nobody died, they were injured and responding to treatment, so, we are all fine.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…My convoy not involved  My convoy not involved Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…My convoy not involved  My convoy not involved ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more