Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Ou, has charged the newly elected National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and zonal executives of the ruling party to work tirelessly with leaders and stakeholders to make the party stronger for it to retain power in 2023 at the federal level and win more states in addition to the 22 states currently governed by the party. The Adamu-led National Working Committee emerged victorious at the just-concluded national convention of the party held on Saturday in Abuja, the nation’s capital city. The governor gave the charge on Sunday while congratulating the newly elected APC National Chairman, Senator Adamu, and other members of the NWC and zonal executives of the ruling party. The governor also praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his fatherly and leadership roles in ensuring that APC national and zonal executives emerged through a consensus arrangement, noting that many aspirants, especially the national chairmanship aspirants stepped down because of the respect they had for the president and other leaders of the party. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was excited with the outcome of the APC National Convention, also lauded the aspirants who voluntarily stepped down for members of the NWC and zonal executives at the six geo-political zones to emerge through a consensus arrangement. Sanwo, who is the Chairman of the Finance Committee for the APC National Convention, praised over 7,000 delegates from 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, for participating in the convention. The governor equally congratulated the representatives of Lagos State in the NWC namely: Mr Dayo Israel, who was elected as APC National Youth Leader and Mr Lateef Ibirogba, the former Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, who emerged as South-West Zonal Organising Secretary. He implored them to work hard with APC national, zonal and state executives, as well as party leaders and members for the victory of the ruling party in Lagos State, South-West region, and Nigeria at large during the 2023 General Elections. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details