About 15 pupils of a private school in Akungba-Akoko in Akoko South West Local Government Area of Ondo, Hope of Tomorrow Academy, were injured when the school bus conveying them to school was razed by fire. The incident which occurred around 8 am when the driver was conveying the students to school caused tension in the university community as parents and guardians of the pupils ran to school to confirm the incident. It was gathered that the vehicle caught fire and there was smoke in the vehicle while all attempts by the driver to open the doors of the vehicle were not successful. This caused apprehension while the pupils ran towards the exit, injuring some of the pupils in the process The injured pupils were rushed to a nearby General Hospital in Iwaro Oka, where they received first aid treatment while some of them were rushed to Federal Medical Center, Owo According to an eyewitness, who explained that “there was smoke in the sky and people ran to the area and it was discovered that it was a fire accident involving school children” “It took the intervention of residents who have to break the rear shield of the vehicle after discovering that the doors of the vehicle had locked. “Though no life was lost to the incident, but we heard some of the pupils have been rushed to Federal Medical Centre in Owo” Efforts to get comments from the Management and Staff of the school proved abortive as they declined to talk with our correspondent. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Funmilayo Odunlami, said “I have been trying to get in touch with the DPO but his number is not connecting”. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details