Microsoft has submitted its own individual Energy Compact, reiterating the actions it will take to have 100 per cent of its electricity consumption, 100 per cent of the time, matched by zero carbon sources by 2030, and to procure renewable energy to meet 100 per cent of its electricity consumption by 2025. According to a statement by Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL), Microsoft is the latest company to submit an Energy Compact, affirming its commitment to drive decarbonisation of the electric grid to combat climate change. UN-Energy and SEforALL have worked with governments and companies to sign Energy Compacts, allowing for actionable and voluntary commitments to accelerate progress on energy access, renewable energy, and energy efficiency. Additionally, Microsoft is signing the 24/7 Carbon Free Energy Compact with SEforALL, governments and other companies, supporting a broader community of entities making these commitments. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Energy Compacts were first introduced as a key outcome of the High-level Dialogue on Energy, convened by the United Nations Secretary-General on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in September 2021. The ultimate objective of the Energy Compacts is to galvanise resources and actions towards achieving Sustainable Development Goal 7 (SDG7) on universal access to affordable and clean energy in line with the Paris Agreement on climate. With this announcement, Microsoft joins national and local governments, businesses, foundations, and international civil society and youth organisations from every region who have submitted over 200 Energy Compacts, reflecting actions and finance commitments through to 2030 towards achieving SDG7 and a global energy transition. “Today, 759 million people live without electricity, and 2.6 billion are without clean cooking solutions. It is urgent and pressing that we address energy poverty while also working towards decarbonisation. Microsoft’s bold and ambitious commitments made through their Energy Compact will help set us on a pathway towards achieving our dual energy and climate goals,” said Damilola Ogunbiyi, CEO and Special Representative to the UN Secretary-General for Sustainable Energy for All and Co-Chair of UN-Energy. Noelle Walsh, Corporate Vice President, Cloud Operations and Innovation at Microsoft Corp. added, “As we take further strides towards grid decarbonization and to a clean energy system, we’re delighted to partner with UN-Energy and Sustainable Energy for All to encourage all stakeholders across the globe to formalize their commitments to helping ensure affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all by 2030.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity