Oyo State Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde has described the Baale of Ekotedo, Elder Taiwo Ayorinde, as an elder statesman whose wealth of experience is needed to navigate the economy of the state. Speaking at the 87th birthday thanksgiving of the traditional head, the governor, who was represented by his executive assistant on administration, Rev Idowu Ogedengbe said: “Elder Ayorinde is an elder statesman who is very cerebral at his age and he is availed with lessons from events that had happened in the past, which the state can learn from to improve the economy. “He is a respectable man. We need him to be an atlas for us to navigate our way for us to improve this state and the nation at large.” The celebrant, Elder Taiwo Ayorinde expressed gratitude to God for preserving his life to date as he recalled how he had cheated death three times and how he was blind at a point in his life.  Commenting on social issues, the heads of all Baales in Ibadan spoke on some irregularities in the country. He said: “How can I be in a country where a high court judge will be challenging the judgment of another high court judge from different zones? “You know, things ought to be done properly. This country needs to review itself because the constitution is jaundiced, faulty and corrupt.” He spoke on women’s inclusion in government and administration, saying “the room given to women is nothing but shoddy and insulting. Women should be treated like human beings.” He, however, dissuaded the Oyo State government about the prevalence of urchins who had returned to the street despite being moved to a settlement in Akindele which the state government had built for them, as their presence on the street pose a threat of insecurity to the state. Present at the event were Dr Bọla Are; a popular gospel artiste, a member of the Oyo State Judiciary, traditional chiefs, religious leaders and well-wishers. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details