Some residents of Elewuro Akobo in Lagelu Local Government Area of Oyo State, have slammed the chairman of the local government, Honourable Kazeem Adeyemi Gbadamosi, for brandishing a gun at a social function in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital last Friday. Narrating the scenario to Tribune Online on Sunday, on behalf of others, a resident, Mr Segun Durojaiye, informed that the incident occurred during the burial ceremony of the late father of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in Lagelu Local Government, Chief Femi Falowo. Durojaiye, who was at the ceremony told Tribune Online: “It was a usual social gathering, but for the fact that it was the burial ceremony of a politician’s father, the event attracted politicians from across nooks and crannies of Oyo State. Security personnel, both local and government were on the ground. “Trouble started when an aspirant of the House of Representatives seat for Lagelu/Akknyele federal constituency, Adetokunbo Abideen Adeaga, arrived at the venue alongside his supporters and local hunters who were present welcomed him with gunshots, it was at this point that the security personnel recruited by the Local Government authority started shooting, a development which prompted guests at the party to run for safety. “As this was ongoing, Gbadamosi, probably frightened by the presence of Adeaga, snatched a gun from one of the local government security personnel and attempted to shoot. It took the intervention of Adeaga and some other people to prevent him from shooting. “I want to on behalf of other residents call on the Governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde to please call Gbadamosi to order in order to avert future occurrence, not to put residents under unnecessary tension and also not to tarnish the image of the government of Oyo State.” While reacting, Gbadamosi in a telephone conversation with Tribune Online said: “I see what happened last Friday as an attempt to assassinate me. I was shot at twice, I can recognise the guy who shot at me, he was putting on a different dress. Adeaga came into the venue of the party with some guys in complete black attire. “Initially, I did not want to talk on this matter because it all happened in the presence of men of the Directorate of State Security (DSS) and the Nigerian Police. What came to my mind when the shooting was ongoing was that it was a deliberate attempt to kill me just like they killed two lawmakers from our constituency, late Honourable Segun Oladimeji a.k.a Segelu and Olatoye a.k.a Sugar. I collected a gun from the security personnel to defend myself. If I did not do that at that point in time, I would have been a dead man by now.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details