The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned in strong terms what it called continuing insecurity and near worthlessness of the lives of Nigerians under the All Progressives Congress (APC) government as, according to the main opposition party, evidenced by the vicious terrorist attack on innocent Nigerians travelling in a Kaduna State-bound train on Monday. The party stated on Tuesday that the successful ambush of the train on the Abuja-Kaduna service by terrorists who killed many Nigerians, abducted scores of others in an operation that lasted for over an hour, again confirmed PDP’s stand that the security command and control coordination structure under President Buhari has collapsed. Describing the ruling party as “insensitive and cruel,” the statement noted that more alarming was the fact the latest attack took place within two days of the deadly terrorist attack on the Kaduna International Airport on Saturday, March 26, 2022, in the same Kaduna State controlled by an APC government. The PDP insisted that the complicity of silence by the Buhari administration on Saturday’s airport attack emboldened the terrorists to assault the train; a development which, it posited, also validates PDP’s position that the APC administration has conceded sovereignty over parts of our country to terrorists. The statement signed by Hon. Debo Ologunagba, its National Publicity Secretary, added: “The continued silence and obvious helplessness of the Buhari Presidency on these deadly attacks on our nation’s key transportation sectors raise apprehensions of possible complicity at the very top level of the APC administration. “It is callous and unfortunate that the APC government, in its usual insensitive nature attempted to suppress information by keeping mute over 24 hours after this horrendous attack which claimed the lives of promising Nigerians among whom was a young medical doctor, Dr Chinelo Megafu who was fatally shot in the ill-fated train travel. “Nigerians can recall the confession by a former APC leader that these assailants are terrorists brought from neighbouring countries by the APC as “political mercenaries” to rig the 2019 general elections. “In 2021 over 10,366 Nigerians were killed by terrorists with over 2,900 abductions in countless terrorism related attacks in which no fewer than 964 security agents were killed, as revealed by SB Morgen (SBM) Intelligence Report published in the Guardian Newspaper of Thursday, January 3, 2022. “Those killed in 2021 represents a scary 47% increase in the 7063 massacred by terrorists in 2020. “More alarming is that the killing spree has continued in 2022 unabated. More than 536 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists since the beginning of this year. In the first three weeks of January 2022, about 486 Nigerians were killed by terrorists as reported in Premium Times of Sunday, January 23, 2022. “Again, only last week, 50 innocent Nigerians were reportedly hacked to death by terrorists in the same Kaduna State! “This is beside the hundreds of Nigerians, including students who were abducted by terrorists with many of them still languishing in their abductors’ den. “The question to ask is, how many more Nigerians can our nation afford to lose because of the recklessness and arrogance in failure of the APC?  Nigeria bleeds, families are hurting, parents mourn and agonize, yet the APC government is on vacation.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details