Palpable tension in Kaduna State as bandits stormed Kaduna airport and stopped an aircraft  from taking off from the Airport. Findings gathered that the aircraft was scheduled for Lagos on Saturday, when the hoodlums stormed the runaway forcing the officials of the airline and passengers to run for safety. According to source who pleaded for anonymity disclosed that a staff of Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) was also shot and killed by the bandits. Even though, news about the shooting of the airport staff is still scanty but it was learnt that the deceased was shot around the runway by one of the bandits It was gathered that the  aircraft which was billed  to take off  at 12.30pm on Saturday could not because of the presence of the bandits around the runway of the airport. ‘’As I speak to you now, there is already military presence to beef up security , though most of the staff are scared with the killing of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) staff, the source said. As at the time of filing the report,  more than 10  military trucks have been deployed to the airport  to reinforce the security network around the airport. It would be recalled, that last year, bandits stormed the staff quarters located within the vicinity of the airport  and kidnapped 10 staff of FAAN and NAMA. Also, the security agencies our the airport are yet to react at the time of filing the report. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details