Chairman, Trade Union Congress (TUC) in Kwara State, Comrade Akinsola Akinwunmi, has been reported as one of the persons killed by bandits who attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train on Monday. Speaking with Tribune Online in Ilorin on Tuesday, the immediate past chairman of the TUC, Comrade Kola Olumoh, who confirmed the demise of his colleague, said that he and the deceased were supposed to be part of the TUC executive meeting in Ilorin on Tuesday. The late TUC chairman was a staff of Dangote industry in Ilorin until the company was recently bought over and he was inaugurated as the TUC chairman about two years ago. “The death was so shocking. Such a vibrant young man. We lost him. In fact, am sad and really down. He’s a person with prospect. He’s come to know his rights and wrongs. We had issues before he came on board, you know, and he came to me and we resolved the matter. Since his inauguration, he’s been very diligent and resourceful”, Comrade Olumoh, an ex-officio member of the union said. Also speaking on the development, the convener of a pro-democracy group in the state, Kwara Must Change, Comrade Abdulrazaq Hamzat, sympathized with the union and called for called for improved security, through overhaul of security architecture in the country. In a statement by the group on Tuesday, it said that the railway attack in Kaduna was an unfortunate development that should not have been allowed to happen. According to Hamzat, the recent loss was one of the series of losses that could have been avoided. Hamzat also noted that it is a public knowledge that the terrorists had been making efforts to attack the railway for a while now while their efforts did not materialise until Monday. “While it is clear that the security agencies are making a lot of efforts and sacrifices to prevent such attacks, the incident of yesterday shows that their efforts isn’t enough and this is an unfortunate situation for the country” Hamzat maintained that, the call for the overhaul of the security architecture in the country must be given top priority now because from the attack of yesterday and other similar ones in recent time, it is clear that the current model of security operations cannot secure the country and there must be overhaul of the infrastructure as soon as possible to prevent future attacks”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details