The Independent National Electoral Commision (INEC) has rejected a letter inviting it to an emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC). INEC’s response, dated March 9, signed by its Secretary, Rose Anthony, was entitled: “Re:Invitation to the emergency meeting of the National Executive Committee”, and addressed to the National Chairman, APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The commission drew the attention of the APC CECPC to the fact that the letter of invitation was not signed by Governor Mai Mala Buni, National Chairman of the APC CECPC and its Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe. This, it said, was contrary to the provision of the Article 1.1.3 of the commission’s Regulations and Guidelines for Political Party Operations (2018). INEC also reminded those who wrote and signed the letter of the provision in Section 82(1) of the Electoral Act 2022. It said the section required ‘at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, congress, conference, or meeting convened for the purpose of merger and electing members of its executive committees, other governing bodies or nominating candidates for any elective office. It urged the APC to note the key issues raised for compliance. INEC’s letter read: “Please refer to your letter Ref.APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/022/32, dated 8th March 2022. “The commission draws your attention to the fact that the notice for the meeting was not signed by the national chairman and national secretary of the CECPC. “This is contrary to the provision of the Article 1.1.3 of the commission’s Regulations and Guidelines for Political Party Operations (2018). “Furthermore, the APC is reminded of the provision in Section 82(1) of the Electoral Act 2022, which requires ‘at least 21 days’ notice of any convention, congress, conference, or meeting convened for the purpose of ‘merger’. “And electing members of its executive committees, other governing bodies or nominating candidates for any elective office. “While hoping these issues are noted for compliance, please accept the assurance of the commission’s warm regards.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more