The most popular material for greenhouses nowadays is polycarbonate. It has several advantages, including light-diffusing properties and durability. The issue is, however, how much effect does the Polycarbonate’s thickness have. Choosing the proper greenhouse plastic for the thickness you require may be difficult. There are many different panels and kits to select from, each with its own set of benefits and drawbacks. Polycarbonate is a strong, long-lasting, and flexible thermoplastic. This stuff may be moulded to fit any need and is malleable. Polycarbonate’s shatter-resistant, lightweight, and corrosion-resistance properties make it a superior alternative to other coverings. Skilled installation of panels with the right material, size, thickness, colour, and the manufacturer will guarantee that your greenhouse lasts a long time and performs well. Before we get into the insulating materials and other factors, there are a few misconceptions we’d like to clear up. We keep hearing the same things from our consumers. This is incorrect. There are no high-quality Polycarbonate panels, like glass, that allow you to see through them. Acrylic is the word for this translucent stuff. Polycarbonate panels are semi-transparent (they allow light to pass through) and not completely opaque. Polycarbonate is a type of uni-directional polycarbonate plastic that may be clear, translucent, or see-through. Some producers even develop panels especially for more privacy or greater light diffusion. The most frequent misconception about greenhouse insulation is that it’s simply from the panel thickness. Furthermore, the panel’s structure and quality also play a role. The more tightly the greenhouse is built (perhaps with rubber seals between frames and panels), the better it will keep out heat. As a result, it will be cooler in the summer and warmer in the winter. Another thing to consider is that Solexx panels are thinner than most greenhouses, yet they offer a better insulation factor than 8 mm twin walls. Another thing that many people overlook is the heat. People are concerned about the cold, but the spring and summer should be equally concerning to you. Greenhouses are much more difficult to cool down than they are to heat up since greenhouses are always hotter. In general, the thicker the panel, the more heat it traps. When it’s summer, a warmer greenhouse doesn’t guarantee a bumper crop. So, to get true year-round growth in your greenhouse, you’ll need to figure out how to keep it cool during the summer. Polycarbonate panels are notorious for yellowing, which is a major concern because many people have witnessed it firsthand. However, this should be a thing of the past with technological progress. It’s an indication of fault or low quality if a panel fades after a few years. However, you’ve come here to learn more about the insulation properties of different Polycarbonate materials and their light transmission, so keep reading. This is a highly personal decision that is dependent on your specific requirements. As a general rule of thumb, any weather would be fine with 8 mm or more. If you don’t expect to get many ice-cold nights or if you intend on heating your greenhouse throughout the winter, thinner panels might suffice. While polycarbonate sheets are most often used as a “season extender,” they are sometimes utilized in year-round farming. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details