Several people were said to be have been killed and injured in a bloody clash between Fulani herdsmen and farmers in Guri Local Government Area in Jigawa State. Reports from the state indicated that the crisis started last week when the Fulani herdsmen allegedly attacked a farmer on his farm near Guri town, killed him and destroyed the rice crops. A resident of Guri town who claimed anonymity told our reporter on phone alleged that “Six Fulani herders were killed and three farmers also killed during the clash.” ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, “It was the Fulani who attacked a youth while on the farm and killed him. When people (farmers) in the town got to know, the people went and launched a reprisal attack on Fulani in the markets because it was a market day. “Six people were killed. The Fulani herdsmen attacked and killed two travellers in the bush,” he stated. The Jigawa State police command through the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) confirmed the clash but said, “But normalcy returned in the area as security are there watching the situation. Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Lawal Shisu, while speaking on his mobile phone said, “There was a crisis between the Fulani herdsmen and farmers in Guri Local Government Area where two people were killed and five sustained various degrees of injuries at Guri town and Maigirimi village.” ASP Lawal Shisu said the commissioner of police in the state, Mr Sale Aliyu Tafida and the deputy governor of the state had visited the area. The police command image maker said the police arrested 10 people in connection with the clash. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details