Residents of the Koro community in the Ekiti local government area of Kwara state were on Sunday morning thrown into apprehension as members of the local vigilante team on a rescue mission of three kidnapped members of the community engaged suspected kidnappers in a gun duel. Tribune Online gathered that one of the kidnapped victims, said to be All Progressives Congress (APC) women leader, Mrs Olumo Sunday Abolaji, got killed in the process. It is recalled that eight members of the APC were reportedly abducted last Wednesday between Araromi Opin and Obbo-Ile in the Ekiti local government area of the state while returning from the inauguration of the APC State Executive Committee in Ilorin. Five victims of the abduction were said to have escaped with injuries. Some of the victims are Mr Daniel Adewuyi, the Isapa Ward Chairman in Ekiti Local Government Area of the state; the Eruku ward Chairman; Women Leader Eruku; Women Leader Obbo Ile, and Chairman Obbo Ile Ward as well as Women Leader Koro ward, and Women Leader Isapa ward, among others. However, it was gathered from sources in the area that a notable politician in the area had on Saturday morning released a sum of N20 million demanded as ransom by the suspected kidnappers to members of the local vigilance team towards effecting release of the three kidnap victims in Osi forest. “As the hunters dropped the ransom, the kidnappers too released the three abducted women leaders. Sighting the women, the hunters were said to have opened gunfire on the kidnappers while in return one was said to have fired back and the shot hit one of the women called Mrs Olumo Sunday Abolaji; women leader Koro ward and she died on the spot. “The hunters were said to have scampered for safety and the remaining two women released. “As at early Sunday morning Koro hunters had regrouped and was said to be on their way to Osi forest to evacuate the corpse of their dead compatriots,” the source said. Speaking on the development, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the state Police command, Okasanmi Ajayi, said that he was yet to be briefed about the matter. There has been no official statement from the Police on the kidnap and the crossfire between the hunters and the suspected kidnappers. But the chairman of APC in the state, Prince Sunday Fagbemi, said that two of the three victims were rescued alive. “Two of our party women leaders in Eruku ward and Obbo-Ile ward were rescued alive, but unfortunately we lost one of them because the woman leader of Koro ward was killed by the bandits,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team