UNDERSTANDING and acting on the injunction of the Qur’an are essential for all Muslims to lead impactful lives and engender a healthier and saner society, the director of Right Path Arabic Institute, Lagos, Ustaz Yunus Al-Imam, has emphasised. Al-Imam stated this at an interactive session with newsmen as part of the preparation for the graduation of advance-level students of the institution which is slated to hold on Sunday in Ikeja. Speaking further on the imperativeness of seeking the knowledge of the Qur’an, he said: “It is very essential that Muslims understand the language of the Qur’an so that they would be able to assimilate and act on the meaning and lessons of the teachings to improve their faith. “At all times, a Muslim should be concerned about his/her relationship with Allah, how to relate with fellow human beings and impact positively on the society. “At the foundation of Islamic knowledge are some basic principles. These include learning and living the Qur’an and also teaching Muslims how to worship. When you develop your faith, it will reflect in how you worship Allah and in your interaction with people. “At Right Path, these are our core values. We teach our students how to read and understand the Qur’an. We also inculcate in them how to practise Islamic principles and improve on their moral standards,” Al-Imam said. On this year’s graduation ceremony, he said due to the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, graduation ceremonies were not held for two sets of graduates in intermediate and advance classes. This year’s event, according to him, is a consolidation of the past achievements. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Right Path Institute  Right Path Institute Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Right Path Institute  Right Path Institute ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details