The President of the African Development Bank(AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina has described the demise of the former Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology Akure(FUTA), Prof Adebiyi Daramola, as a great loss to his family, friends, associates and the academia. He said Daramola was a brilliant academic, who contributed significantly to the development of FUTA and university education in general. In a tribute, titled , “Professor Biyi Daramola: A classmate, friend, and twin brother,” and sent to the bereaved family, Adesina said even in the face of a very challenging health situation, Prof Daramola never lost his voice, positive attitude, concern about Nigeria and how to make it better. “You were courageous. You were full of faith. You never lost an opportunity to even remember our birthdays; selflessly, always thinking of others. “Your brilliant mind was as sharp as ever. There was never any subject or issue you could not engage in and discuss.
“Your brilliance was clear to all ever since we were together at The Polytechnic Ibadan and also together as classmates at the University of Ife( now Obafemi Awolowo University). “You were our pride when you got elected as Vice-Chancellor of FUTA. “You contributed greatly to making FUTA what it is today, with your usual honesty, penchant for professionalism, uncompromising integrity, doggedness, vision, passion, and drive for excellence. “I am at a complete loss of what to say now to your dear wife and your loving and caring children, who helped and prayed as you weathered this storm. I will reserve my main tribute until your funeral date. “For now, as I am in the midst of our classmates and college mates, I want to say that my heart bleeds. It is like a mirage. We have lost a wonderful friend and colleague. “I lost a wonderful and cherished classmate, friend, and a very dear twin brother. “So long, Biyi. Your life and how you lived with impeccable integrity, and Godly faith, will always remain an inspiration.
“You left a legacy of truth, godliness, kindness, generosity and care for all your friends. “I love you, but God loves you most. “Sleep well, my very dear classmate, friend and twin brother.” Prof Daramola, who served as the sixth Substantive VC of FUTA till May 2017 died on Friday, March 25, 2022 in the course of an illness at the age of 64. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details