The 26th edition of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) Games has begun on Saturday night in Lagos. The University of Lagos (UNILAG) Akoka is the host institution with more than 7,000 student-athletes and their officials from over 76 universities nationwide featuring in a total of 21 sporting events. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare; representative of Lagos State governor, Sola Ayegbekun; deputy governor of Ogun State, Mrs Nimot Salako; Chairman of UNILAG governing council, Dr Lanre Tejuosho; Pastor Tunde Bakare, and representatives of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God and that of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries, Pastors Jaiyeoba and Godwin Enahekna respectively, are among dignitaries who graced the opening ceremony at the university’s Sports Centre. The participating schools filed out in turn for match past even as the 10-day event is billed to end on March 27. In his remark, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said NUGA Games is really a potent instrument that unified Nigerian youths. He said the unification of Nigerian youths irrespective of ethnic and religious backgrounds and the harvest of talents in their large number are the sole essence of NUGA Games. According to him, evidence has shown that it is better to speak to the youths in the language they understand and sport is one of those languages, hence NUGA Games, a cause in that direction. Also speaking, the sports minister, Sunday Dare re-echoed the essence of the sports competition, saying it is truly to identify talents and also bring the undergraduates together in love and unity He said the event is true, making its intended impacts since inception. In his welcome address, Vice-Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe said NUGA Games has been a veritable source to produce a new galaxy of stars that will add to the national teams in various sports that would bring glory to the country and themselves in no distant future. He said UNILAG would be hosting the games for the fourth time in the 56-year- history of the games, first in 1958, second and third in 1978 and 1998 and now the ongoing edition. He said the university had prepared very well including for the safety of all the athletes and officials and other visitors to make the event worthwhile. He said his only appeal is for all participants to adhere to the rules guiding the event including following the COVID-19 protocols. While noting that the prayer of UNILAG is for the event to go down in the annals of NUGA Games as a game-changer in the country, he added that this edition was branded ”A City Nuga” because some of the games would hold outside UNILAG to create awareness about the unity sports brings to Nigeria. He said the new dimension introduced into the event this edition is that there would be a reward for the best-behaved university, best athlete and best in female category as well as the trophy for the best school. Also welcoming participants, NUGA President, Prof Stephen Sanaah, said NUGA Games is designed for the university students in the country either government or privately-owned to exhibit their sporting talents with a view to developing them for fun and economic purposes. He, however, thanked all the sponsors and supporters of the event from both the public and private sectors, saying their contributions are well-acknowledged. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team