An Igando Customary Court in Lagos, Lagos State has  dissolved the marriage between a civil servant, Mrs Nuratu Olaosebikan, and her husband, Isiaka Olaosebikan, over constant battering. The court president,  Mr Koledoye Adeniyi, said that the union could no longer stand as  a result of constant fight between the both parties at every slightest provocation. Adeniyi said that it was evident that the respondent, Isiaka, only showed love and care to his children and not his wife, Nuratu. “The court has observed that there is no understanding between the couple who often result to fighting at any slightest provocation. It is very clear from the evidence of the petitioner and the respondent that they are not compatible. “Love is totally absent in their relationship. “More so, they have chosen to live separately for years, which is an indication that their marriage has broken down completely; therefore the dissolution of their marriage,” he said. He stated that both parties ceased to be husband and wife, henceforth. “Both parties should go their separate ways and any bickering between the two shall be treated as a crime, “he said. Adeniyi granted custody of their children to the petitioner, Nuratu, since the respondent did not contest the custody. He ordered Isiaka to pay N10,000 monthly for the up keep of their last born and N25,000 monthly when the other children were on holiday. “The respondent must also be responsible for the education of their three children,” he said. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the petitioner, Nuratu, a resident of No. 16, Shoremekun Street, Liasu Road, Ikotun, Lagos State had approached the court on August 19, 2021 seeking that her marriage to Isiaka be dissolved. She sought divorce on the grounds of constant beating, harassment, drunkenness as well as lack of care, respect and love from her husband. Nuratu also urged the court to grant her custody of their children, and make the respondent responsible for their education and upkeep. The case was referred to the Alternative Dispute Resolution session where they were advised to resolve their differences amicably in the interests of their children. The court gave them up till October 2021 to observe each other and report back.  When the case came up, the couple still indicated that they wanted to go on with the divorce proceeding. Naratu told the court that their marriage was always filled with fights and quarrels which brought shame to her in the neighbourhood. “My husband would sometimes strip me naked and beat me.  I have left him on three different occasion,s but I had to return after much pleading  from relatives because of our three children. “Shortly after I gave birth to our son, I heard he wanted to marry another wife. I saw him with his alleged new wife and I confronted him, but people pleaded with me to go home. He stopped coming home since then. “Many times he would go to the beer parlour and the children would have to go and meet him there.  Sometimes he would return home drunk and I would find him sleeping inside his car in the compound. “Each time I challenged him on his behavior, he would start cursing me.  I had to stop talking to him and started sending the children to him anytime I wanted to ask for anything. “There is no more love between us. The beating is too much. He no longer cares for me, except the children.  I have rented another apartment where the children and I can live and be at peace. “I urge the court to go ahead and dissolve our marriage, ”she said. In his defense, the respondent, Mr Isiaka Olaosebikan, a resident of Plot 188, Gowon Estate, Ipaja, Lagos State, denied the allegations. He, however, still pleaded with the court to dissolve their union. He said that he had already married another woman. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more