The Executive Secretary of the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE), Professor Paulinus Okwelle has expressed concerns about the gale of conversation of Colleges of Education to Universities by Governors of some states in the Federation. Okwelle who spoke on Wednesday in Abuja while presenting his welcome address at a two-day National Summit on the future of Nigeria Certificate in Education noted that the development of not checked would lead to the extinction of the Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), which is the minimum teaching qualification as provided by the National Policy on Education. He noted that a few State Governments including Sokoto recently converted their Colleges of Education to Universities of Education without informing NCCE as a supervisory body on how to graduate those students enrolled into NCE programmes before the conversion. He said: “Another challenge to the existence of NCE Programme is spate at which Colleges of Education are being converted to Universities without recourse to the provisions of the National Policy on Education which stipulates NCE as the minimum teaching qualification in the country”. He disclosed that at the Federal level, there have been Bills being passed at the National Assembly for a few Federal Colleges of Education to be converted into Universities, stressing that this development needs to be revisited to avoid NCE from going into extinction thereby creating negative consequences for the whole Education Sector. “Parameters and criteria for conversion of any tertiary institutions in Nigeria need to be well spelt out and commonly agreed upon by relevant stakeholders. “As practice in other climes, the law establishing Colleges of Education could be amended to allow mature ones to operate on a dual-mode; offering NCE Programme and a degree in specific courses they have the capacities to run. This issue is worth considering at this crucial moment,” he said. He also decried the circumstances where some Proprietors of Colleges of Education have been found violating the criteria for the appointment of Principal Officers, especially in State and private Colleges of Education, by appointing unqualified persons as principal officers of their institutions. He insisted that there were established cases of non-educationists being appointed as Provosts of State and Private Colleges of Education in the country, saying this does not augur well for the image of those institutions and the country as a whole. “This summit is hereby requested to come up with a framework that will promote the appointment of only qualified Educationists to head the colleges so as to provide needed leadership in all NCE awarding Institutions (Federal, States and Private),” Okwelle said. Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, who declared the summit open, tasked stakeholders at the event including seasoned scholars, teacher educators, experienced education administrators and representatives from other sister agencies in the Education Sector to brainstorm and chart a way that will reinstate NCE to its past enviable old days of glory. “It is my conviction that if we seize this opportunity to get it right with NCE, our collective resolve of repositioning and strengthening the quality of education in the country would be achieved bearing in mind that NCE is a strong pillar for the basic education level,” Adamu said. The Minister who was represented by the Director Overseeing the Office of the Permanent Secretary, Mr David Gende, noted that when effective and qualified teachers are adequately prepared in the Teacher Education Institutions, there would be an assurance of having skilful teachers in the classrooms at the Basic Education level. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details