The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that it has presented the list of new voters to political parties ahead of the next general elections. A statement issued by Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, noted that the Commission action was in compliance with Section 10(3) of the Electoral Act 2022 which states that “the Commission shall, within 60 days after each year, make available to every political party the names and addresses of each person registered during that year.” Okoye further noted that it was equally in fulfilment of the assurance by Chairman of the INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, who told newsmen last weekend that the first two activities on the Timetable for the 2023 General Election would be met this week. He said: “The first activity was the publication of the Notice of Election yesterday 28th February 2022. “The second activity is the collection of Forms EC9 and EC9A – E by political parties for issuance to candidates who emerge from their party primaries. The Forms can be downloaded from the Commission’s website: https://www.inecnigeria.org/resources/nomination-forms/ “The Commission will continue to provide a regular update to Nigerians on the implementation of all electoral activities.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.2023: INEC releases list of new voters to political parties 2023: INEC releases list of new voters to political parties ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.