Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, Director-General of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), has tasked corps members to take advantage of the NYSC scheme to promote unity and integration in the country. The DG gave this charge, on Tuesday, during the swearing-in ceremony of the 2022 Batch ‘A, Stream II corps members at the permanent orientation camp, Iseyin. Ibrahim, in a statement delivered by the Oyo State Coordinator, Mrs Grace Ogbuogebe, said the corps members must embrace this “opportunity of a lifetime” and strive to promote national unity and integration. He said, “Your presence in this camp is an opportunity of a lifetime, and I, therefore, enjoin you to participate actively in all the aforementioned programmes to enable you to succeed. “You have been deliberately assembled from diverse ethnic, religious and socio-economic backgrounds to enable you to begin, right from here, the performance of your much-envisaged roles in the promotion of national unity and integration. “Accordingly, I encourage you to ensure healthy interactions, exchange ideas that will broaden your understanding of the country and build lasting friendships.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The NYSC DG further urged the newly sworn-in corps members to utilise the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme availed to them during the orientation course. According to him, the SAED programme will enable them to be wealth/job creators, which will also help tackle the current high rate of unemployment in the country. Ibrahim also reiterated the scheme’s diligence in adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. He explained that the scheme has launched several measures in collaboration with the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 (PSC) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to ensure the safety of corps members and stamp out the disease. He further advised the corps members to be active in all camp activities, shun unnecessary and unauthorised journeys as well as be good ambassadors of the NYSC scheme. Ogbuogebe, earlier in the address noted that a total number of 2380 corps members, comprising of 834 males and 1546 females were registered today. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NYSC DG tasks corps members on promotion of national unity, integration ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details