It is a very sad moment and period for Nigerians who believed in democracy to make things better. It is exactly a year to the 2023 general election and it is obvious that those who are at the helm of affairs , those who promised to give us a better administration and security , indirectly communicated that there would be war and famine. Gone are those days when we would describe Nigeria as a land flowing with milk and honey. Now, the reverse is the order. On Monday the 28th of March, 2022, there was an attack on a Kaduna-bound train which crashed and claimed so many lives. According to reports gathered, it was 970-passenger capacity train; some other people got injured. It was reported in the media that at least eight out of the 398 passengers who boarded the ill-fated Kaduna train from Abuja around 6pm on Monday, have been confirmed dead by the federal and state governments, while 28 are currently hospitalised and several others still unaccounted for. Looking at this unfortunate incident, as I stated earlier on, the Buhari-led administration has lost its guard by not caring for the security of lives and properties, which is obvious. Another painful thing about it is that a medical practitioner was killed in the attack. According to some reports, she was planning to migrate to another country to get a job when she met her untimely death. On Tuesday the 29th of March 2022, the President condemned the attack and ordered security personnel to investigate the actual cause of the incident.  What a sorry case for my country! I will also say that security operatives sometimes are not prepared for things like this because they believe that everything will be fine. We need to prepare for the worse in order to make things better in our country. This tragic occurrence is a clarion call to our leaders that a lot still needs to be done when it comes to security and welfare. I believe all will be well when we do the needful. Joshua Olagundoye, Lead City University, Ibadan ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details