The Tyoughtee community in Gwer-West of Benue State, displaced by killer herdsmen, has called on Federal Government to deploy more security personnel to their community, to protect their lives and property. The traditional ruler of the community Tyoor Chief Joseph Akawe made the appeal on Wednesday, during an event organized by Tyoughtee Youth Development Association to deliberate and find a solution to the invasion and occupation of their community by herdsmen. The Traditional ruler lamented the sad invasion which he said started in 2010, up till now, he called for the deployment of security personnel, stating that the security is not enough. He went on to give the youths a pat on the back for organising the meeting. According to Chief Akawe; “This thing started happening in 2010 up till today, the security personnel are not enough, we are supposed to have security presence in Kura, Agagbe, Apiam, Enger and Mbanguhar, but we have only in Kura and Agagbe which is not enough. “We have been calling on government at the top to take charge of those places because the security is not enough,” he appealed. At the youth meeting, he said that; “I have been telling them that this is a very good development because when you come together you can learn a good thing, but if you are separated you will find it difficult to do anything,” he stated. The women told Tribune Online that, they have not been going to their farms, according to them, they were not able to plant during the last planting season, and if something is not done to change the situation they will not engage in farming this coming season too. They went on to say that the herdsmen has been raping them when they attack, and in isolated places. The high point of the meeting was the awarding of Reverend Father Cletus Ortwer Bua with the title of Defender of Mbakpa Valley, which the President of Tyoughtee Youth Development Association, Tarnongo Timothy Tiza said Fr. Bua persuaded prominent sons and daughters of the community on the challenges of the military, and they bought 15 motorcycles for the military. Stating that the clergyman also revived the collapse of education in the community. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details