The national leadership of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has suspended the Lagos State Council chairman of the union, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo. This is just as MC Oluomo pulled the Lagos branch of the union out of the NURTW with immediate effect, creating serious confusion and tension among members of the union in the state. Meanwhile, state commissioner of police, Abiodun Alabi directed all Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers (DPO) and strategic team leaders to be alert around the major parks in the state to forestall any breakdown of law and order. The Nigerian Tribune gathered that the Akinsanya’s indefinite suspension followed two queries earlier sent to the Lagos transport union boss. It was further gathered that the suspension of MC Oluomo might not be unconnected with a protest, organised by loyalists of Oluomo led by Alhaji Mustapha Adekunle at the Lagos House in Marina, a few days ago. The protesters accused the national leadership of the NURTW of unduly interfering in the activities of the Lagos State Council of the union and appealed to Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to intervene. According to NURTW, Oluomo was suspended for alleged “insubordination, gross misconduct and inciting NURTW members in Lagos against the national leadership.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In a letter signed by the General Secretary of NURTW, Kabiru Yau, MC Oluomo was directed to “hand over the mantle of leadership to his deputy and release all property belonging to the transport body in his possession to the state secretary to avoid any leadership vacuum in the state.” The letter partly read: “Your suspension is sequel to sustained acts of insubordination and gross misconduct coupled with your clandestine plans to instigate crisis and unleash mayhem on any braches of the union in Lagos State that refuses to obey your order or instructions and accept directives from the national headquarters of the union .” Meanwhile, Oluomo, while reacting to the alleged suspension denied receiving any letter from the national leadership of NURTW and went ahead to pull the Lagos council of the union from the activities of the national body. He also called on the state government to take over the activities of NURTW in Lagos by setting up Park Management Committee to run and control the affairs of the union. Oluomo, while addressing journalists on Thursday afternoon said: “There has been some crisis in our umbrella body of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). All attempts to have an amicable resolution have failed. “In fact, we have protested to the Lagos State Government about the state of affairs in our union and being law-abiding and responsible citizens, we have decided to explore all avenues for peace in the interest of all. We will not support any action that can threaten the peace that we all cherish so much in Lagos State.” He announced that “Therefore, I Comrade Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya on behalf of the State Administrative Council (SAC), State Executive Council (SEC), members of the entire union rank and file, members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State Council with over 200 branches and zones hereby resolve to immediately withdraw our membership from the national body of NURTW for peace to reign in Lagos.” The image-maker in charge of the state police command, Adekunle Ajisebutu, while reacting to the tension, created by the NURTW crisis assured that “there is no cause for alarm.” He also added that “the state commissioner of police, Abiodun Alabi, had alerted all Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers (DPO) and strategic team leaders to ensure 24-hour surveillance and patrol in all nooks and crannies and motor parks in the state.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more