Following its approval to hear some of the petitions filed before it virtually, a petitioner, Aniekan Archibong, on Tuesday testified before the independent investigative panel on human rights violations by the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and other police units via Zoom. Archibong lamented that despite getting court orders the police are yet to release his car, phone and laptop were taken away on September 22, 2019, when he was arrested for no reason. He narrated that he was allegedly arrested unlawfully, detained and the properties were seized by the police in Calabar, the Cross Rivers State capital. According to him, he was operating a patent medicine store in Calabar before being arrested when one Sergeant Anthony Eze, then attached to the anti-robbery unit of the State Police Command headquarters, in company with some other persons came to his shop, manhandled him, without telling him his offence and tagged him an armed robber before he was eventually taken away to the police station. The petitioner told the panel, “While I was in detention my Toyota Carina car, Samsung phone, HP laptop and the sum of N68,000 were seized from me by Sergeant Anthony Eze.” Archibong further told the panel that he was released after four days in detention without the police releasing the properties seized from him. He said that he later discovered that Sergeant Eze did not declare all the items he confiscated from him and all efforts to recover the items proved abortive. This, according to him, made him file a suit for the enforcement of his fundamental rights at the Cross River State in Calabar, claiming that judgment was entered in his favour against the police, for Eze to release his properties. While being cross-examined by the counsel for the respondents, Fidelis Ogbobe, Archibong said despite the court’s intervention, his properties confiscated by the police were yet to be released. The panel has adjourned to March 21 for defence. Meanwhile, giving a reason for permitting virtual hearing of some petitions before it to enable petitioners and police officers to seamlessly testify and give evidence before, a member of the panel, Dr Garba Tetengi SAN, who presides over Tuesday’s sitting, declared that the panel was time-bound. While calling for the cooperation of parties to enable the panel to dispense with the various cases within the limited time frame, Tetengi noted that the idea of a hybrid hearing is acceptable since there is the possibility of hearing some of the petitions via Zoom, which has been approved by the secretariat of the panel. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more