Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the immediate posting of DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, to Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) as the new Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Department. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja, on Thursday, by the Acting Force Public Relations Officer, FPRO, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. According to Adejobi, DIG Johnson Babatunde Kokumo, was appointed to the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police in 1988. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Sociology from the University of Maiduguri, Borno State, and a Master’s Degree in Sociology with a specialty in Criminology from the University of Lagos. He has attended several specialised and strategic courses within and outside Nigeria including the Forensic Science and Application of Forensic and DNA Skills Course at the University of Benin. He was equally a member of Senior Executive Course 41, 2019, National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, Jos, Plateau State. He has equally served in various operational, investigative and administrative capacities within the Force, some of which include Commanding Officer, 16 Police Mobile Force, Abeokuta; Deputy Commissioner of Police, General Investigations, FCID; Commissioner of Police in both Edo and Osun State Commands, and Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Federal Operations, and the Zone 2 Command, Lagos. Until his recent posting, he was the DIG in charge of the Department of Research and Planning, Force Headquarters, Abuja. The posting is with immediate effect, the statement said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.IGP orders posting of DIG Kokumo as FCID head IGP orders posting of DIG Kokumo as FCID head How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team