The Board of Trustees has approved the appointment of Prof. Abiodun Musa Aibinu as the second Vice-Chancellor of Summit University, Offa on the recommendation of the Governing Council. The appointment is sequel to an earlier interview conducted by the Joint Council Senate Selection Committee which is composed of highly experienced stakeholders of the University. The appointment is in line with the provision of the Summit University Law 2015. Professor Abiodun Musa Aibinu until his appointment as the new Vice-Chancellor of Summit University, Offa is a Professor of Mechatronics at the Federal University of Technology, Minna, Niger State, Nigeria. He is popularly recognised as an “Acadopreneur” and a highlymotivated career-driven achiever with over 23 years working experience in the field of Artificial Intelligence, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Robotics, Mechatronics Engineering, Telecommunication Engineering and Industrial Automation. He also has teaching and research experience in the field of Artificial intelligence and Robotics. Professor Aibinu, Abiodun Musa was born on 9th January, 1973 in Lagos, Nigeria and hails from the city of Ibadan, Oyo State. He attended Euba Boys’ Secondary School, Mushin, Lagos, The Polytechnic Ibadan, Oyo State, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Blekinge Institute of Technology, Blekinge, Sweden and International Islamic University Malaysia, Malaysia respectively. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Professor Abiodun holds a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) in Artificial Intelligence to Digital Signal and Image Processing from International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM), Malaysia between 2006 and 2009. He has been actively involved in teaching, supervision, mentoring and research activities at various Universities in Nigeria and Malaysia. Until his appointment, he was a Professor of Mechatronics Engineering at Federal University of Technology (FUT) Minna, Nigeria, where he held many important academic positions. Professor Aibinu, Abiodun Musa had participated and won several academics and research awards at various international and national exhibitions. He is happily married and blessed with children. He would assume duty as the second Vice-Chancellor of the Institution in April 2022.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details