The Cross River State House of Assembly was sealed off early Tuesday morning by scores of heavily armed combined security forces. Tribune Online learnt that the security forces, currently at Hopewadel Avenue; had blocked the entrance of the Eastern Naval Command, (Nigeria Navy Ship Victory) NNSV, all through to the gate of the State House of Assembly, and restricted any form of movement in and out of the state Assembly quarters, as no house member was available, just as no staff was allowed inside. Confirming the situation, the state Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, CSP Irene Ugbo, said the essence of the barricade, was to secure government property, in adherence to the Abuja Federal High Court deceleration or judgement that sacked 20 lawmakers from Cross River state on Monday afternoon. “Nothing is happening, we are just protecting the government’s property. We are doing that in respect of the pronouncement of the Abuja Federal High Court yesterday. “So in order to stabilize the area, some people in a situation like this Will agree while some will disagree, and some miscreants may want to invade the place, so we are just ensuring law and order, to stabilize the place, that’s all,” she said. The security personnel comprising the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp, Mobile Policeman, Anti-Kidnapping and Cultism Squad among others were seen in and outside the assembly. As at the time of this report, the Assembly gate remained sealed and all staff denied access. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details