The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has granted former Governor of Anambra State, Mr Willie Obiano, administrative bail. The EFCC Chairman, Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa, disclosed this while fielding questions from newsmen at the 5th Annual General Assembly of the Network of National Anti-corruption institutions in West Africa (NACIWA) in Abuja on Monday. Bawa said Obiano was still in its custody since he had yet to meet his bail conditions. “Although, he has been granted bail, we are waiting for him to perfect his bail conditions. So far, he has been cooperating with us and everything is going on well,” he said. Obiano was arrested on Thursday at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos and brought to Abuja on Friday morning. The former Anambra State governor is being investigated over an alleged misappropriation of N42 billion belonging to the state. The former governor was being interrogated over an alleged misapplication of N5 billion Sure-P money and N37 billion security vote withdrawn in cash. The anti-graft agency boss insisted that there was nothing political about Obiano’s investigation. “There is nothing political about the investigation. You know what the EFCC stands for. We investigate crimes, we look at people that have committed crime and we link it up together and then we go to court. “That is all we have been doing and that is what we will continue to do. We have been accused of media trial. But we will continue to do our investigations professionally,” Bawa said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…We have granted Obiano  We have granted Obiano Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…We have granted Obiano  We have granted Obiano ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team