Professor Chukwuma Soludo and Dr Onyekachukwu Ibezim were on Thursday sworn in as governor and deputy governor Anambra State Soludo was sworn in by Justice Onochie Anyachebelu, the Chief Judge of the state. Both took their oaths of office and allegiance at the Anambra State Government House in a ceremony witnessed by hundreds of people. In his address, Soludo said the new Anambra State under his leadership would be a state of law and order. He thanked the outgone governor, Chief Willie Obiano and the leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for their immense support. He thanked the people of the state for interviewing him and employing him to serve them as governor. Soludo announced the suspension of all revenue collections in the state for one month and outlawed all cash payments to Anambra State government in motor parks, roads or anywhere. He emphasised the need for peace and called on youths, politicians and agitators to embrace dialogue as that was the only panacea for peace. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Soludo performs first official duty as governor, suspends revenue collections Soludo performs first official duty as governor, suspends revenue collections ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity