A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state, Otunba Adetunji Oyabambi, has defected from the ruling party to the current opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) along with his supporters. Oyabambi, a governorship candidate in 2019 on the platform of the United Democratic Party (UDP) announced his defection at the PDP ward secretariat in Ijagbo. Oyabambi, who cited alleged bad governance as his reason for leaving the ruling party, accused the APC-led administration of not investing in the people of the state. According to him, “the party from the state to the national level is in the commotion and this is distracting the government from delivering good governance to the people. “You can see what is happening in Kwara. It is almost everywhere in Nigeria. At the national level too, APC is facing a serious crisis. Here in Kwara, we have different factions. This has distracted the governor and he is now so focused on fighting party members and winning the forthcoming election when he is even yet to deliver his promises to the people of the state”. Oyabambi, who was received by the PDP ward executive members, stated that APC is a party with no clear ideology or plan for the masses. He promised to continue his empowerment programme to the people of his constituency despite the defection, adding that “such philanthropic act is in me and will go with me anywhere I move to”. He described the former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki as a humble man who has the love of Kwarans and Nigerians at heart. He said the country needs a visionary, young, vibrant and highly educated President like Saraki to usher in an era of rapid social and physical development in the country. “Our party needs Saraki. He has goodwill, he is popular across the country and educated. He is capable of unlocking the potential of the country,” he said. “When I view him from afar, I had a different perception of him. However, getting closer, I discovered that he is a very humble man. He meant well for Kwarans and Nigerians.” In his remarks, the Ijagbo ward chairman of the party, Hon. Samson Tunji Asa, said the PDP would form a formidable administration that would have direct positive impact on the lives of the masses in Kwara and the country at large. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details