Former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, has stated that Nigeria needs a detribalised leader to turnaround its problems. Okorocha noted that a detribalised leader can be known by checking his antecedents as one cannot give what one does not have. He made this disclosure during his interview on a Nigerian Television station on Sunday, March 13. “We need someone who is in the eyes of every Nigerian  is not tribalised because people cannot work together when they don’t agree. “So, how do you know this person? Check his antecedents because you cannot give what you don’t have. You cannot be what you are not over the life of 50 years.” Meanwhile, the Former Governor blamed the country’s underdevelopment on its lack of wealth creation. He noted that the budget of Shagari’s administration is not in dissonance with the current country’s budget. Senator Rochas added that the country’s unchanging income is not meeting its increasing population. “The problem we have is the inability to create wealth. If you look at Shagari’s budget and Nigeria’s budget today, nothing has changed. “Today, it is 13 trillion naira which is 25 billion dollars that was Shagari’s budget. “The budget of Nigeria has not changed and the income has not changed, while the population of Nigeria is increasing,” He said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 2023: Nigeria needs detribalised leader ― Okorocha ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team