Akwa Ibom State governor, Udom Emmanuel has obtained the expression of interest and nomination forms to vie for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next year’s poll. The forms were picked on his behalf on Wednesday in Abuja by a group, the Brekete family, whose spokesman Innocent Orji, told journalists that they proud of what the governor has done for his people. Emmanuel, thus becomes the fourth serving PDP governor to join the race for its presidential ticket, following in the footsteps of Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Nyesom Wike (Rivers). The group affirmed that Emmanuel would impact more lives and turn the fortunes of Nigeria for good. The spokesman said: “Today is a new dawn in our country Nigeria because for the very first time in the history of Nigeria, this is the only time a group of people came together and said, change must take place come 2023. The Ordinary president. Dr. Ahmed Isa and the founder of Brekete family, Radio and television came out to say to the world that change must start come 2023. “The reason behind all this is because what we have witnessed since the independence is not something to write home about. Hence, the change will start with us this time around. He said that we, the Brekete family globally will purchase 10 Presidential nomination forms. “Each person that want to participate must have outstanding antecedents and we must purchase the form.We are starting from this particular person today. That’s why we purchased one today for the person of Dr. Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom state. This is just the starting point. “When he (Governor Udom) came to Human Rights Radio and Television for the program Brekete, he came on his own and he presented all he has done. We don’t believe until we see. So we decided to do proper investigation on our own. We traveled to Akwa Ibom and saw everything that he said, and we even discovered that there were many he didn’t mention. “As a result of that, we are of the opinion that if he could do all these in his own state, he will do even better in Nigeria as a whole. Based on this, we said we are nominating him and we will purchase this form for him.” Also fielding questions after collecting the forms on Wednesday, former Managing Director FSB International Bank, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen pledged to leverage on his professional background to create millions of job for Nigerian youths. He said: “Imagine a Nigerian who cannot boast of 20 thousand in a month suddenly getting an opportunity to work away with N10millon because he is involved in kidnapping people for ransom.The more they do this, the more they get incentified to do more. “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary solutions. We need to build up the size of the military, re-train and re-arm them, provide them with the motivational tools that they need so that they can fight this battle successfully. “They should invest in intelligence assets because all these things are very important and it will take time to develop these kinds of capabilities. “Understanding and dealing with insecurity is not exclusive preserve of the armed forces or the military. The entire society needs to be brought in. We must declare a national emergency, bring in all the stakeholders- the youths, traditional rulers, academia, specialist in security, retired and military brass, police, intelligence, because these are people who live among us. It is important to craft a lasting solution for dealing with this issue.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details