Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State has submitted a list of 20 Commissioner-nominees including three professors to the state House of Assembly for approval. Speaker of the House, Mr Uche Okafor, announced this at Tuesday’s plenary while reading a letter from Soludo, dated March 28. Okafor said the governor also sent another letter requesting the confirmation of 15 Special Advisers. The Speaker, however, asked the House Committee on Screening to screen the commissioner-nominees. The majority leader moved a motion for the confirmation of the 15 special advisers and they were approved after a voice vote. The commissioner nominees were Mr Ifeatu Chinedu, Professor Ofonze Amucheazi, Mr Ifeanyi Okoma, Ms Chiamaka Nnake, Dr Afam Obidike, Mr Patrick Aghamba, Mrs Ifeyinwa Obinabo, Dr Obinna Ugonnadi, Mr Julius Chukwuemeka and Professor Ngozi Chuma-Udeh. Others included Mr Paul Nwosu, Dr Foster Ihejiofor, Mrs Patricia Igwebuike, Mr Felix Odimegwu, Mr Chikodi Anara, Professor Chika Ifemeje, Mr Collins Nwabunwanne, Mr Donatus Onyeji, Mr Anthony Ifeanya and Mr Paulinus Onyeaka. Also at plenary, the house read a resolution urging Soludo to appeal to the Commissioner of Police in the state to return checkpoints and patrol teams across the state. The house resolution followed a motion raised by Mr Onyebuchi Offor, representing Ekwusigo Constituency, (PDP). According to Offor, absence of the checkpoints in the state has increased insecurity which is causing serious threats to lives and property in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details