The candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), in the July 16 Osun governorship election, Honourable Kehinde Atanda, has said the ADP is the next party that will govern Osun State. Atanda said this in his acceptance speech after he was elected as the flagbearer of the party for the Osun election. The governorship hopeful said he accepted and appreciated the overwhelming support he received to emerge as the party’s candidate. According to him, “I promise to work hard with fellow members to achieve our desired goal to be the next party that will govern Osun State and turn things around in our state where the majority of our people will have decent working and living conditions. “I am happy to serve you, the community, our state, and Nigeria at large. If we work very hard, our victory is certain.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity