Many admission seekers into tertiary schools, who want to sit for this year’s Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) being conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), are finding it difficult to register for the examination. The registration is ongoing since Saturday, February 19 and is expected to last till March 26 as scheduled by JAMB. But many applicants expressed great displeasure over the exercise, saying the process is full of hitches and very frustrating. They said if the situation is not addressed fast, many prospective candidates would certainly be denied the opportunity to sit the exam this year, except JAMB extends the deadline. Some of the students and their parents, who spoke to Sunday Tribune in Lagos, identified some of the problems trailing the exercise to include profile code generation through the candidate’s National Identity Number (NIN), poor internet network, and disorderliness at the CBT registration centres, among others. Some of them said they had been trying to generate profile code for up to three days or more to no avail and that in spite of that, they still lost some amount of money as service charge to their phone operators which deduct N50 (instead of the normal N4 charge) on each SMS text. UTME is a conditional assessment test to gain admission into tertiary institutions from colleges of education to universities in Nigeria. And JAMB makes profile code a first step and mandatory for every prospective candidate to be able to progress with the registration by logging into the JAMB portal to fill the application forms, make payment and then do the biometric capturing. And because of the inability to generate the code after many attempts via the Short Text Message (SMS) and using different active phone numbers, some go for the alternative, which is to send an email with the candidate’s NIN and Name to an address given as nimc-jamb2022@nimc.gov.ng. “This other method is also a tug of war before we could sail through on the third day we have been trying,” Mr Remi Adelowo, one of the troubled parents and father of three, told Sunday Tribune. According to him, at some initial attempts, I used to get automated responses to the email, asking for a retrial after four hours if the code is not sent and we did that for two days but on the second day there was no response again and yet we kept trying for another day. “But at last, we went back to the first option, now by using my wife’s phone number maybe we could be lucky and that was how we were able to generate the code and then proceeded to a CBT centre around Iyana-Ipaja axis. Mr Adelowo, a civil servant said at the CBT centre and with e-Pin, they went through another terrible experience as there was total disorderliness of operations including non-adherence to COVID -19 principle at the place. According to him, even though candidates are given numbers on arrival so as to be attended to in turns in that order, in reality, the CBT workers are not following the rules. He said they were giving priority to those who come in groups through the back doors over those on the ‘official queues’ and who have arrived at the venue much earlier. “They would call about five people on a queue at once into the hall while those who are just coming in group and some in school uniforms and with their teacher would go directly into the hall and would be attended to first before the former group. “Just Friday last week, I was there around 8.00 am with my daughter and they didn’t attend to her until around 2.00 pm and yet, to do the biometric capturing turned out to be another big issue. “They told her there was no internet network and that she should step aside pending when the network would return and because of that, we waited for another three hours still without network, we then left with the hope of coming back the next day. “The next day which was Saturday, we were there as early as 7.30 am and my daughter was the second person to be around. We were happy thinking they would be attended to as they arrived but it wasn’t so. “The CBT people tried to play prank again by first attending to some groups of students claiming they were around the previous day but not attended to. “I have to protest the practice openly before they reluctantly attended to my daughter around 11.00 am. “I am quite sure if I didn’t do that or follow her to the centre, she wouldn’t have been through even till now with her registration. “The process is too traumatic,” Mr Adelowo lamented However, Adelowo, just like many others, blames the poor registration process first on NIMC for its poor internet connectivity to the JAMB server and on CBT centres that are not orderly in their operations and then on JAMB for not doing effective monitoring of the exercise at the CBT centres. He said JAMB would need to do the bulk of the work by putting NIMC and the CBT centres on their toes to improve on their services as applicable. He said JAMB should not pretend not to know that the students who are doing registration and their parents are supposed to be in school studying for the exam and their school certificate exams and at work respectively rather than wasting their valuable time on registration. But reacting to the complaints, Registrar of JAMB, Prof Is-haq Oloyede said the applicants are to be fully blamed for all the problems being encountered in the course of the registration and therefore their problems are self-inflicted.
He identified lack of obeying simple instructions and guidelines such as carefree and wrong imputation of NIN by applicants, poor coordination with their family members and failure to follow other stipulated rules as the sole factors inhibiting the smooth registration. He said JAMB as a body had come up with a system designed to be hitched-free but for only applicants who follow the laid down guidelines. He said as far as JAMB is concerned, the registration is on the course including the hope of meeting the target of about 1.5 million applicants by the deadline. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more