Tiger Lager has unveiled five entertainment personalities as ambassadors to lead its #LiveUncaged campaign. In a private event held yesterday, March 18, celebrities, journalists and friends of the brand gathered to witness the reveal of the faces for the #LiveUncaged experience as the Tiger brand launches into the year of ‘The Tiger’. The new faces include BBNaija’s Liquorose, fast-rising afrobeat singer Ruger, award-winning alternative duo, The Cavemen and fashion icon, Noble Igwe. Speaking on the new Tiger ambassadors, the Senior Brand Manager, Tiger Beer, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Beatrice Adeniran expressed her excitement saying, “We are delighted to reveal these five bold mavericks who, against the obstacles in our society, have charted their course and found their unique voices. Their journey depicts what living uncaged truly means and this event is to celebrate them and recognize them for their courage and unrelenting drive.” The #LiveUncaged campaign promises an exciting ride for lovers of both the beer and the celebrities revealed. The year-long campaign will include media tours to cities across the country, Tiger beer pop up booths and surprise visits to premium locations, the ROAR Live Experience, the Tiger Draught launch and a lot of other fun activities set to be unveiled as the year unfolds. With the #LiveUncaged campaign, Tiger beer is calling out to young Nigerians, asking them not to be held back by societal norms and traditions, to reach within, unleash their individuality and demonstrate fearlessness in the face of the odds stacked against them. Considered as one of the world’s fastest-growing premium beer brands, it is currently marketed in over 60 countries. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. BBNaija’s Liquorose, Ruger, Cavemen, Noble Igwe unveiled as Tiger Beer ambassadors ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team