Rector of Kogi State Polytechnic, Dr Usman Ogbo, has warned the newly matriculated 6,216 students on cultism and examination malpractices and all vices that can affect their stay in the polytechnic. Addressing the matriculating students at the main campus of the institution on Thursday in Lokoja, Dr Usman revealed that a total of 5,229 students of National Diploma (ND1) and 987 students of Higher National Diploma (HND1) were matriculated into school of art, design and printing, school of management studies, school of engineering, school of environmental technology and school of part-time and vocational studies of the polytechnic. The rector who emphasized on the need for the new students to prioritise their studies cautioned them against cultism, indecent dressing, religious bigotry, examination malpractice, alcoholism, unhealthy social gatherings, cyber crimes among others. According to him, “within the ambience of our value for academic excellence, creativity, and self-reliance, you have unlimited opportunities to explore and succeed in any virtuous endeavour. “While you enjoy these opportunities, it should be noted that the institution has zero tolerance for all forms of social vices such as cultism, gun-running, examination malpractice, alcoholism, unhealthy social gatherings, cyber crimes, incitement to violence, gangsterism, misuse and destruction of school property, stealing and indecent dressing. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We want to reiterate that while noble acts attract rewards, all vices will be met with heavy sanctions. You should endeavour to obtain, read and digest the revised edition of the students’ information handbook that will be distributed through your respective departments. Ignorance of the law has no place in this school and will not be condoned. “Indiscipline, poor academic performance, unruly behaviour and insubordination are highly forbidden in this institution. You are therefore expected to exhibit high sense of discipline while in the polytechnic, as the institution will not award its certificates to students that are deficient in character and learning. “Cultism is completely forbidden on our campus, all the visible and invisible security architectures of the polytechnic placed in so many strategic places have preventive mechanisms to deal with cultists, their sympathizers and their sponsors. “Students are advised to stay safe and free from all cult-related lifestyles. Students are also advised to report any move intended to intimidate, lure them into or enlist them in cultism from any quarters to the security unit.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details