Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday announced a chieftain of the party, Prince Kola Adewusi as the running mate of Senator Ademola Adeleke in July governorship election in the state. The chairman of the party, Hon. Sunday Bisi who made the announcement after the party stakeholders meeting in Osogbo said “While the choice of Prince Adewusi might have elicited divergent reactions in several blocs and individual opinion, I urge our party leaders and members alike, to rather close ranks and come together strongly to rescue our state from the ruinous APC. Such reactions and counter-reactions are almost inevitable in any contest.” “I urge our loving people of Ile-Ife and indeed Osun State, to please rally round the choice of our brother, Prince Adewusi as running mate to our candidate, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, as no one would have been chosen for the same position without attendant cheers and jeers. “However, the common goal of salvaging Osun State should loom lager and steer us into an uncompromising commitment for a collective shield of victory. “Today is a great day in the history of our great party, the People’s Democratic Party, PDP in Osun State. It is a special day to kickstart the beginning of our march to victory. It is a day we will all look back to appreciate the core value of unity in battle. IT IS A SPECIAL DAY. “Great leaders of our party, you would recall that since my assumption of office as chairman of our party in Osun State, I have always believed in a collective process of decision making. “I have always called for stakeholders’ deliberations in the wake of urgent or highly important matters of interest to our great party. I do this because I believe politics is like a cooperative entity, where ideas are catalogued and processed for the good of all.” “Today’s stakeholders’ assembly was called not only to fulfil routine or administrative exegesis but especially to unveil and plug cords of the IMOLE PROJECT of our governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke and his deputy, Prince Kola Adewusi.” “I believe fervently that the choice of the duo by our party will galvanize all forces leading to a resounding victory for our great party and by extension, the good people of Osun State. “Although it is largely prerogative of the elected candidate to select one amongst eminently qualified personalities in the party as his running mate, it is, however, gratifying that Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke chose the path of wide range consultations in the choice of Prince Adewusi. “In other words, we all chose the deputy governorship candidate just as we collectively elected our governor in waiting. “While I congratulate our brother, Prince Kola Adewusi on your emergence as the deputy governorship candidate of our great party in Osun State, I however challenge you to immediately stand up and be counted in our quest for victory. “I urge you to do all within your arsenal to turn up as an asset to this project. I urge you to work with our candidate and make more friends for the project, I urge you to win more votes for the project. I urge you to be actively alive in the winning boat. For me and my colleagues at the State Working Committee, we have absolute trust in your capacity to mend fences and work for our collective success. “To our candidate, we want to once again assure you of our unalloyed commitment to the IMOLE GOVERNORSHIP PROJECT. We will work with you and stand by you. We will work with our indefatigable people of Osun State to make you our governor. We will collectively rescue Osun State.” “Once again, I thank all of you great leaders, men and women of goodwill as well as energetic youths of our party for your untiring resolve to stand by the party all these years, even in the face of crass distractions. With the strength of your support, we remain standing.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team