Prof. Greg Ibe has joined the governorship race of Abia State under the PDP with the promise that his period would witness a fix of the infrastructure deficit. He said the development rate of Abia state was not commensurate to its resources and the expectation of Its people. Addressing newsmen shortly a group under the aegis of Abia Professionals Forum noted that the developmental rate of Abia is still far from expected. Addressing newsmen in Abuja after picking the governorship expression of interest and nomination forms, the Abia Professionals Forum obtained the form and has Engr. Arinze Anthony Nwokeji, as its spokesman said “over the years, the quest to bring development to Abia State and fixing the huge infrastructural deficit of the state has been daunting. “While all the successive administrations, military and civilian, including the short-lived third republic made efforts to give Abia the much expected quantum leap in development indices, yet the developmental rate is still far from expected. “Our challenges are increasing and becoming more complex and therefore cannot be solved in traditional ways. A response that goes beyond incremental improvement is what is required in Abia. “We must increase our pace of change to meet up with our challenges and be ahead of them. Simply put, Abia needs a man with brainpower and imagination. A man with a spirit of invention and organisation, vision and action. He must have the political will and the preparedness to govern our State at this particular time in our history. “Determined not to experiment any longer, and as professionals who bears the brunt of poor governance, we have gone to search for a man who can meet the criteria we have set for ourselves for Abia in 2023. “We have found in Professor Gregory Ikechukwu Ibe OFR, like that man who can give us a breath of fresh air in Abia. Professor Ibe is a legendary Nigerian Business Executive, an entrepreneur par excellence. He is a moving spirit for educational transformation in Nigeria, a humanitarian and philanthropist.” Also speaking, the Campaign Director General of Ibe, Hon. Emeka Okafor said that the aspirant has what it takes to bring investors to Abia, to develop infrastructure, to bring up the youths to a reasonable standard. According to him, “I can assure Nigerians that when Gregory becomes the Governor of Abia state, unemployment will be a thing of the past. He creates jobs, he is a professor of entrepreneurship. He has proven integrity. Because of him, the US has donated over 2 billion dollars to Nigeria. With his connection, foreign investors will have a place in Abia and Nigeria as a whole.”Ibe noted that the developmental rate of Abia is still far from expected. “We have found in Professor Gregory Ikechukwu Ibe OFR, as that man who can give us a breath of fresh air in Abia. Professor Ibe is a legendary Nigerian Business Executive, an entrepreneur par excellence. He is a moving spirit for educational transformation in Nigeria, a humanitarian and philanthropist.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Professor joins Abia gov  Professor joins Abia gov Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Professor joins Abia gov ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details