The Global Advocates for Muslims’ Unity, an association popularly referred to as Bebe Islam, has reiterated its commitment to putting smiles on the faces of the needy and promoting the unity and true virtue of Islam in the society and Nigeria at large. It also said it had resolved to carry its life-transforming programmes beyond the Muslim circle. This was the consensus of the executives and members of the association at the just-concluded weeklong 14th anniversary of the organisation which saw it empower the underprivileged and cater to the aged. As part of the celebration, the association also held a special Juma’at service at Agidigbo 88.7 FM located along the Iwo-Road-Ojoo highway in Ibadan, last week. The General Secretary of the association, Alhaji Hussein Oke, said the association, in the last 14 years, had empowered hundreds of people, including the underprivileged, prison inmates, youths and the aged and contributed to the propagation of Islam through its popular radio programme. “The impact of the association speaks volumes and we thank Almighty Allah for how far He has brought us. We have provided free healthcare services to old and young people as part of the activities marking our 14th anniversary. “One of the major challenges of the Muslim community is the worrisome state of burial sites, but Bebe Islam has come to the rescue as we have provided a burial site for any Muslim funeral,” Oke said. The chairman of the anniversary committee and the deputy chief mission of the association, Alhaji Ridwanullahi Aresingun, acknowledged the efforts of the popular broadcaster and activist, Alhaji Hamzat Oriyomi, at impacting lives through the initiative, just as he commended him for making use of the association to promote unity in the Muslim community and give succor to people, especially the needy. At the grand finale of the anniversary, which coincided with the birthday of the brains behind the initiative, Oriyomi, executives and members of the association organised a reception for dignitaries and well-wishers. The event also featured award presentation to dignitaries, captains of industry, among others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Bebe Islam restates  Bebe Islam restates Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Bebe Islam restates  Bebe Islam restates ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more