The Kano State Command of Nigeria Police has arrested 18-year-old Abdussamad Suleiman and his 17-year-old accomplice, Muazzam Lawan, for allegedly killing 21-year-old housewife, Rukayya Jamilu. State Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO), SP Abdullahi Haruna, made the disclosure in a statement made available to pressmen in Kano on Thursday. The statement hinted that “on February 12, 2022 at about 2030hrs, a report was received from a resident of Danbare Quarters, Kumbotso LGA Kano State that on the same date at about 2000hrs, when he returned from his place of work to his house, he met his wife, Rukayya Jamilu, ‘f’, 21 years old in a pool of her blood motionless on her bed, and also his children, (1) Anwar Jamilu, ‘m’, 3 years old, (2) Amina Jamilu, ‘f’, 1-year-old with grievous injuries. “On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police, Kano State Command, CP Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko, raised and instructed a team of detectives led by SP Ibrahim Hamma, Divisional Police Officer, Dorayi Babba Division to proceed to the scene.” The statement added that the team moved to the scene and rushed the victims to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital Kano where the housewife was examined and confirmed dead by a medical doctor while two other victims admitted. The investigations conducted by the Command’s Criminal Investigation Department and DSS led to the arrest of the principal suspect, Suleiman of Dorayi Chiranchi Quarters, Gwale LGA Kano State and Lawan of the same address. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “On discreet investigation, the principal suspect confessed that on February 12 at about 1600hrs, he went to the house of the deceased as his relative and met her on the bed. After he greeted her, he saw three (3) mobile phones and took them. “Having realized that she recognized him, he used a wooden-made pestle and repeatedly hit her on her head and also hit her two children and left with the mobile phones,” the statement stated. He further disclosed that the principal suspect further confessed that he gave one of the mobile phones to his friend and sold the other two at N12,000. “His friend was arrested and also confessed to having sold the mobile phone given to him belonging to the deceased at N2,000,” the statement added. He also added that the case will be charged to court upon completion of the investigation. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details