IF the ultimatum issued last week to all traders and other occupants under over 20 bridges in Lagos State is anything to go by, it is expected that all illegal activities under these bridges would have been cleared before Thursday. The Federal Government had last Wednesday given all traders and other illegal occupants under over 20 bridges in Lagos a final ultimatum to vacate before March 31 or face forceful eviction. The Director, Highways, Bridges and Design, Mr Oluropo Oyetade, gave the ultimatum during an emergency meeting between the Federal Ministry of Works delegation and Lagos State Government officials to review the Apongbon Bridge fire. Oyetade said that a contract was already on for the rehabilitation of the Apongbon Bridge, which repairs had not been concluded only for the same bridge to be gutted by fire. He described the damage to Apongbon Bridge as an avoidable incident. According to him, the government cannot continue to build and allow irresponsible attitude of Nigerians to damage such infrastructure built with huge resources. The director said that all Federal Controllers of Works had been directed to clear encroachers on all bridges nationwide while lamenting similar fire incidences to bridges in Ajaokuta and Kano State recently. The firefighters had last week battled frantically to put out the inferno under the Apongbon Bridge. Oyetade announced the ultimatum from the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, to illegal occupants of the bridges in Lagos to vacate before March 31 or face forceful eviction and sanctions. “I was about to enter a meeting concerning the Third Mainland Bridge before I was hurriedly ordered by the Honourable Minister to come here to give his directive and mandate that he has given to me, to announce that the area (Apongbon Bridge fire) should be cordoned off, which we have done. “And that the inspection of the defects caused by this inferno shall be taken immediately the place cools down. ”But the most important that I must deliver here is that all the occupants under our bridges particularly in Lagos, we are giving them seven days to pack away. “Seven days counting from today. By March 31, the task force will swing into action and we will impound all recalcitrant elements that we find under the bridges. “They shall be forcefully evicted. Not only that, they will be made to pay for any items, we have to remove them. “Let me repeat and make myself clear, all occupants under our bridges, we have over 20 bridges in Lagos, should move before 31st of March,” he said. He warned that a task force would embark on enforcement of recovery of the Right of Way (RoW) on all the 20 bridges in Lagos from March 31. He also condemned the activities of illegal sand dredgers that removed the soil under the Third Mainland Bridge, to jeopardise the safety of the infrastructure. Oyetade said that three companies had been arrested in connection with this development and would be prosecuted. The director said he was to hold a meeting with the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) in Abuja to discuss issues of regulation of the sand dredgers, but had to run down to Lagos to attend to the Apongbon Bridge fire. He told journalists that the Apongbon fire was massive and that traffic architecture was being drawn up between his engineers and the Lagos State officials on the best possible diversion options. The Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Frederick Oladeinde, said his ministry would issue a release on diversion alternatives to the public after consultations by assessing and exploring the best options with regard to diversion alternatives. Oladeinde said that the Apongbon Bridge fire would negatively impact traffic, adding that a combined team of traffic regulatory agencies were on the ground to manage a traffic architecture to be drawn to reduce the hardship on road users.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details