The Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) has expressed shock at the sudden death of the immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Adebiyi Gregory Daramola. In a statement from the University signed by its Registrar, Richard Arifalo, said the University received the news of the demise of Daramola with shock and sadness, saying FUTA has lost one of the builders and contributors to the growth and development of the institution. According to Arifalo, Nigeria has lost an erudite scholar of international standing who exited the world at a time that his experience was in dire need for nation-building. Prof. Daramola who served as sixth Substantive Vice Chancellor of FUTA between May 2012 and May 2017 died on Friday March 25, 2022 in the course of an illness at the age of 64. The statement said “The death is shocking and painful not just because of its suddenness but also because by the death FUTA has lost one of the builders of and contributors to the growth and development of our institution and Nigeria has lost an erudite scholar of international standing. “Prof. Daramola served FUTA creditably well in various capacities. During his tenure as Vice Chancellor he consolidated on the gains of his predecessors and charted new frontiers of development particularly in the areas of rebranding, internationalization and renewal of critical infrastructure. “He succeeded in “Taking FUTA to the Market Place” as he canvassed in his agenda for development of the University, prior to and after taking office as Vice Chancellor.” He said “Prof. Daramola, attended University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), Nigeria for Bachelor’s degree (B.Sc., 1980). Thereafter, he proceeded to the University of Ibadan, Nigeria for Masters and Doctorate degrees in Agricultural Economics (M.Sc., 1982 & PhD, 1987). “He started his career in FUTA   in 1986 serving in various positions thereafter. He was appointed Professor of Agricultural Economics on October 1,1999. “Between 1990 and 1991 he was a Postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Advanced Training in Agricultural Economics, Department of Agricultural Economics and Business Management, University of New England, Armidale NSW 2351, Australia. “During his lifetime Professor Daramola undertook many diverse engagements for many national and international organizations. and also served as Chairman, Committee of Vice Chancellors (CVC) and Association of Vice Chancellor of Nigerian Universities (AVCNU), two positions he held concurrently between 2015 and 2017.” “Our thoughts and prayers are with members of his family at this very difficult time. We also enjoin them to take solace in the rich and laudable legacies of sterling services to the academic world and humanity that the departed erudite professor left behind. “We pray that God will give them and the entire university community the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss,” the statement read. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details