Founder of Hour of Mercy Prayer Mountain Worldwide, Prophet Muyideen Kasali, has urged the Federal Government of Nigeria to urgently fix refineries in order to get over the recurring fuel and scarcity in the country. The cleric said loans could be secured to address the perennial mess. He also urged Nigerians not to solely rely on zoning in the 2023 presidential poll but to continue to pray to God for a president that will have mercy and interest of the people at heart. Kasali who spoke at the end of one month prayer and fasting programme of the ministry, held annually to mark his birthday said the only solution to the fuel crisis is to fix the refineries once and for all no matter what it will cost us. He said successive governments have introduced so many policies including fuel subsidy and devised means of bringing succour to the people, but all have failed. “They said the fuel subsidy will be removed, but what relief has that brought to the people over the years? “Instead of looking for short term solution, they should do the needful by fixing the ailing refineries to save us from this mess. “We are known for getting loans for almost everything; if we can get loan to execute our railway project, let the them get loans to fix the refineries and people will appreciate the essence when everything is working effectively. “They are now blaming the increase in oil price in the world market to the Russia- Ukraine war, but we still take our oil to foreign lands for refining and get it back at higher price, if we have our refineries working, there won’t be need for that,” he stated. On the 2023 election, he added, “We should seek God’s face in prayers to choose for us. A political leader should be a servant to the led. “A God-chosen man will love the people, do what God asked him to do for his people and will not listen to any contrary advice even from his so-called aides and assistants. “Our leaders don’t want to give account of their stewardship. When we waged war against corruption, corruption immediately fought back. Who should we run to if not God, when law enforcement agents are being arrested for corrupt practices.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.