The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-ife, Osun State, on Thursday announced the appointment of Professor Adebayo Simeon Bamire, a professor of Agricultural Economics from the faculty of Agriculture, as the new Vice Chancellor of the institution. Pro-chancellor and Chairman of the Council of the institution, Chief Oscar Udoji, who made the announcement in a press conference held at the ICT Auditorium of the institution, stated that his appointment will take effect from June 7, 2022. According to him: “The decision of the Council shall be communicated to the Visitor to the university, President Muhammadu Buhari, through the Minister of Education. “The new Vice Chancellor is expected to assume duties on 7th June, 2022. In
line with approval of the Council, the vacancy was widely advertised in compliance with relevant Statutes and Acts guiding appointment to the position. “At a special meeting of 14th February, 2022, the council perused the Curriculum Vitae of all the 20 applicants who indicated interest in the position. At the end of the exercise, 16 of them were shortlisted, having met the advertised criteria. “The interaction with the candidates began on Monday, 14th March, 2022 and ended on Wednesday, 16th March, 2022. All the 16 candidates appeared before the Joint Council and Senate Selection Board, with 15 of them present physically and one, at his request, virtually. “The Selection Board painstakingly examined the Curriculum Vitae and interacted with each candidate, and scored them accordingly to stipulated criteria. The three highest scoring candidates were presented to the Council for further consideration as provided by the law.” “The entire exercise of the Joint Selection Board was witnessed by the representatives of the Federal Character Commission who have confirmed the exercise was fair and transparent and carried out in full compliance with the provisions of the Federal Character Commission Act. “In line with the provisions of the Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act as amended, the report of the Selection Board was considered by the Council which, after a careful and dispassionate review of the report, decided to appoint Professor Adebayo Simeon Bamire, Professor of Agricultural Economics from the Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, as the Vice Chancellor of the university with effect from June 7, 2022.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity