More revelations have emerged how over 200 bandits stormed the Kaduna International Airport on Saturday killing a security personnel of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency. Workers who pleaded for anonymity told Tribune Online that the bandits that stormed the airport were over 200. According to a staff, they were saying in Hausa ‘Zamu rufe airport ba jirgi da zai tashi'(We will shutdown this airport. No aircraft will fly in and out. The staff affirmed that ‘the bandits  who stormed the runway were over 200 and the attack started around 12:00am today. “They started attacking the Airport around midnight. The bandits were alleging that the military personnel took away their cows. “The military were able to repel them that midnight and we thought that was all. In fact, our staff resumed work this morning as usual. They worked around the runway 5:00am till around 12:00pm. “Then, shortly after that, some NAMA staff went to check some of their equipment, then these people (bandits) appeared and started shooting. The NAMA engineers scampered for safety, they could not even go and entered the vehicle that took them to the site. It was in the process that their security man was shot in the head. “The security man was rushed to the hospital and he was confirmed dead. “As I am talking to you now, the military are still battling those guys, and they are proving difficult to be repelled. Now, they had shutdown the Airport,” the source said. It was however gathered that, many of the staff have already fled the Airport, while more military personnel have been deployed to the scene on clearance operation with a Armoured Personnel Carrier. When contacted the Kaduna State Police Command spoke man, ASP Muhammad Jalige promised to get across to the DPO in charge of the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details