In today’s work environment, leaders need to be effective, and they need to achieve results quickly. Fortunately, these are perceptible, concrete qualities that the right type of person can understand and cultivate in themselves. This article focuses specifically on recognizing the traits effective, results-driven leaders possess. I believe three traits, in particular, are essential to achieving measurable results quickly and efficiently.  Constructive communication Being able to give and receive constructive feedback is a trait that all of the most influential leaders must possess. The key to this trait is understanding how to time constructive feedback with your team members so that it feels like a positive experience for them. Employee engagement firm Officevibe conducted a pulse survey that showed nearly a quarter of all respondents are unsatisfied with the feedback they get from management. They reported that feedback often feels vague and can’t be used to improve work performance or overall productivity. The leaders who get results are the ones who can recognize this failure in their company’s management structure and understand how to take steps to remedy the problem. Being proactive about engaging employees in ongoing conversations about performance goes a long way toward boosting engagement and productivity. And, improving these metrics can lead to better, faster results in the workplace. Leaders must be able to take constructive criticism about their performance as well, both from superiors and subordinates. The best, most effective leaders can accept suggestions and feedback about how they can better serve their team. When employees feel comfortable with expressing their thoughts, positive changes can be made faster and more efficiently.  Concrete thinking Another essential trait for good leadership is the ability to think about the future in quantifiable, concrete terms. In my experience, it can be difficult for many people to truly create and implement a long-term plan because they might be wired to focus on the present rather than the future. I believe this trait immediately sets true leaders apart from the pack because it is not something just anyone can do. Getting great results fast means that you need to be the type of visionary thinker who can see a better future and then make attainable, tangible goals for your team to get everyone there. Depending on your industry, you may not be the person who has the final say in the direction the company goes, and that’s OK. However, as a team leader, you will still influence how and when your team achieves the results your company is looking for.  Emotional intelligence Stress, pressure and the unexpected are a part of any job. Not everyone is equipped to handle these emotionally difficult situations well, much less with grace, efficiency and an eye toward the future. This is why, from my perspective, effective leaders also possess the trait of emotional intelligence. This doesn’t mean you are immune to the negative effects of stress, pressure or difficult situations. Rather, this means you can control your natural impulses to shut down, lash out or panic. Instead, you can observe these emotions and then actively choose to pause and think rationally about the best way to navigate the situation to get the results for which you are looking. This trait also encompasses the ability to empathize with team members who may not be as well-equipped to handle stress and difficulty. Each member of the team needs to function at full capacity to achieve good results, so it falls to the leader to help others regulate their own emotional states as needed. An encouraging word, a specific plan of action or a well-timed suggestion can help your team break out of the natural panic response and lock back into a productive and goal-oriented mode of thinking.  Bringing it all together Leadership is a constantly evolving position, and it is not an easy thing to take on. Leaders who can get results are even more rare and valuable in the workplace. While it’s true that there are many traits a leader needs to be effective, these are three important markers of a successful leader who consistently gets results. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity