The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Dr Bashir Jamoh, has ascribed the decline of piracy on Nigerian waters and the Gulf of Guinea to collaboration among various organs of government in Nigeria, governments in the region and stakeholders from within and outside the country. Dr Jamoh, who stated this while receiving the management of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Channel 10 in Lagos, noted that the success in fighting piracy in Nigeria is a combination of many factors, which has seen the entire gamut of security architecture working together to achieve a common goal. “Our joy is that Nigeria has exited the piracy list and the progress is steady. No single organisation can lay total claim to the success. The Presidency is playing a major role by providing direction, the Armed Forces are playing their role as enshrined in the constitution, and NIMASA is playing its role by being an effective maritime administrator with the Deep Blue Project as a focal tool. The National Assembly who gave us the SPOMO Act and the judiciary who have now ensured maritime crimes are punished in Nigeria, should also get credit,”he said. Dr Jamoh also acknowledged the support from international maritime stakeholders as key to the success in the fight against piracy in the Gulf of Guinea. According to him, the international conglomerates, including the major oil marketers, International Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) and the International Cargo Owners, (INTERCARGO), amongst others, who are part of the joint industry-working group, which has now metamorphosed into the SHADE Gulf of Guinea, also deserve some credit. Furthermore, the NIMASA helmsman disclosed that two of the agency’s Global Maritime Distress Safety System (GMDSS) located at the Regional Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (RMRCC) in Kirikiri, Lagos and Takwa Bay are now fully functional. Earlier, leader of the delegation and the General Manager, NTA Channel 10, Olusegun Osinowo, commended the efforts of the Jamoh-led administration in its quest to realise a robust maritime sector. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details