An Ikeja Special Offences Court on Friday sentenced Frank Udeme, one of the co-defendants of the convicted kidnap kingpin, Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans, to five years imprisonment in Kirikiri Correctional Centre. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo sentenced Udeme for selling firearms to Evans after he pleaded guilty to the charge. The judge ordered that the sentence would take effect from the day he was remanded in custody. “In view of the guilty plea of the third defendant, I hereby find the defendant guilty as charged. “The defendant is hereby sentenced to five years imprisonment. However, the sentence will take effect from the day the defendant has been in detention which is July 6, 2017,” she held. Earlier, the counsel to the third defendant, Mr A. B. Josiah, had notified the court about the defendant’s change of plea. The charge was re-read to the defendant and he pleaded guilty to counts six and seven. Dr Babatunde Martins, the Director of Directorate of Public Prosecution, told the court that the third defendant admitted to having sold two AK-47 and 270 AK-47 live ammunition to Evans. Martins said Udeme, who hailed from Itan-kotoromu in Ika Local Government Area of Akwa-Ibom, made a statement on July 7, 2017, admitting to the offence. The prosecutor said: “He admitted to having met the first defendant and sold two AK-47 and 270 AK-47 live ammunition to him. “In his statement, he said he got the weapons from his community. According to him, the weapons were given to him by his community to fight the inter-communal crises. “Evans sent his driver, Emeka, to retrieve the ammunition from him. In his statement, he wrote and I quote “I sold the ammunition to Evans for N400,000 but he only paid me N200,000. Ever since I have not seen him.” Martins said the defendant’s statement had been admitted into evidence, adding that the offence contravened Section 9(2) of the Firearms Act and punishable under Section 27(b) (iii) of the same Act. “In view of this fact, we urge the honourable court to convict the defendant accordingly,” he said. However, Josiah in his allocutions, pleaded with the court to temper justice with mercy, noting that the defendant had no prior criminal record. “My lord, I pray the court to temper justice with mercy, looking at the plea of the defendant which will save the court a lot of stress. “I also want the court to take into consideration the fact that the defendant has been in detention since July 6, 2017, which is almost the length of his sentence if found guilty. “I urge my lord to temper justice with mercy and give the defendant a lenient sentence. This is his first offence and he has no previous criminal record,” he said. Evans, Frank Udeme, Joseph Ikenna and Chiemeka Arinze were arraigned on a seven-count charge of murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to kidnap and selling of firearms. They were alleged to have attempted to kidnap Chief Vincent Obianodo, Chairman of the Young Shall Grow Motors, on August 27, 2013. It was also reported that one of the defendants, Arinze, passed away on November 26, 2021, as a result of cardiopulmonary arrest caused by Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Taiwo adjourned the case until March 28 for the continuation of the trial of the remaining two defendants. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Man who sold two  Man who sold two Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Man who sold two  Man who sold two ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more