The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has applauded long jumper, Ese Brume, over her silver medal win at the just concluded World Athletics Indoor Championships in Belgrade, Serbia. Brume leapt a distance of 6.85m to finish in second place in the long jump event behind home girl Ivana Vuleta who won gold with a jump of 7.06m. Another Nigerian Ruth Usoro set her new personal season’s best with a leap of 6.69m to place eighth in the event. Brume’s silver medal is Nigeria’s first podium finish at the indoor championships in 14 years. The minister urged Brume to maintain her focus, discipline and determination so she can keep improving on her performances and continue to do the nation proud. “Ese Brume won a bronze for Nigeria at the last Olympics, she has won a silver now, I am sure she will achieve something better (gold)in her next international competition for Nigeria. “We, as a Sports Ministry, are proud of her. She is an epitome of humility, hard work and the Nigerian attitude that never gives up,” Dare said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…World Athletics Indoor Championships  World Athletics Indoor Championships Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…World Athletics Indoor Championships  World Athletics Indoor Championships ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details