AS the persistent strike embarked upon by Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) continues, the Bayero University, Kano has directed students residing on campus to vacate the premises with immediate effect. Also, the university authority has also suspended students’ on-campus jobs, an entrepreneurship scheme recently launched until further notice. According to a statement by the registrar, it stated that the measures became necessary following the extension of the ongoing warning strike by members of the ASUU. However, the school further stated that students presently residing on campus are to vacate the university premises on or before Sunday, 20th, March 2022, in the interest of their own safety. According to the statement, other essential services being rendered to students on campus, besides academic work, are basic responsibilities of non-academic staff. The university did not speak on why those services would no longer be available even as the government continues paying for them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Bayero varsity shuts hostel  Bayero varsity shuts hostel Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Bayero varsity shuts hostel  Bayero varsity shuts hostel ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team