Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State, on Thursday, vowed that his government was all out to fight illegal wood loggers in the state, whose nefarious activities, he lamented, had led to the progressive depletion of Cross River forest reserve. Governor Ayade regretted that communities that are forest bearing had been massively dislocated and their landmass completely eroded, thus creating huge environmental challenges with a cumulative long term consequence. Addressing newsmen in his office, the governor threatened to use any political appointee and security agents who aided and abetted illegal loggers as scapegoats. “Cross River State has 58 per cent of the entire forest cover of Nigeria. We have growing concerns about the rate and the speed of depletion of our forests. “It is against this background that I am sending a note of final warning that I cannot watch the complete degeneration of our forest as we see illegal logging becoming the order of the day. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “From today, anybody caught with illegal wood, your vehicle, the driver, the occupants of that vehicle, the destination of the stolen wood, the government official who is colluding, or the security operatives who are colluding or the forest guards who are colluding, will be picked up and dealt decisively with. We will ensure that we involve the entire global community to sit and watch and monitor your prosecution to ensure that justice is done,” he said. Ayade rued that the illegal loggers had now developed into full-blown armed cartels who were prepared to harm anyone standing in their way. He, however, assured that “we are ready to use as scapegoats, one or two people who are holding top government offices or people who feel they are connected to the Governor or those who feel they are politicians and then create an impression that by the appointments they have they can now collude with illegal wood loggers.” Governor Ayade reiterated that his “administration has no interest in any person who thinks that by their status, they can deplete the forest and put the futures of generations unborn into such catastrophic and cataclysmic danger. This is unacceptable.” He added that his administration was tired of setting up conventional task forces and committees to tackle the menace and will henceforth explore other options, including special espionage. According to the Governor, “We are tired of the complete cycle of conspiracy and so to buck the trend, an unknown task force which is a complete espionage on the criminality that is going on in our forests will be set up.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Ayade reads riot act to illegal wood loggers, says hard time awaits them FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari Ayade reads riot act to illegal wood loggers, says hard time awaits them ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.