In June 2021, the Oyo State government announced that it would activate the payment of the land use charge on properties in the state. While making clarifications on the new development, the Commissioner for Finance, Akinola Ojo, explained that it had become imperative to activate the payment of land use charges in order “to ensure that Oyo State has the revenues required carrying out projects and uplifting people from poverty to prosperity. “Across the state, you can see a lot of significant projects going on and the only way we can fund these projects is by ensuring we have adequate revenue to complete these projects.” Contrary to what many may think, the land use charge is not a creation of the present administration. Historically, the land use charge as a means of raising revenue was created by instrument of legislation in 2012. This was done by the Governor Abiola Ajimobi led administration as a means of increasing revenue as allocations from the Federal Government dwindled. The law was known as the Land Use Charge Law, 2012 (No. 41 of 2012) and it provided that a yearly charge would be paid by property owners within the state; the charge to be paid would be determined by the value of the property. The Oyo State Land Use Charge Law (2012) was patterned after the Lagos State Land Use Charge Law (2001). The land use charge harmonises all land-based rates and property charges (such as tenement rate, ground rent, neighbourhood improvement charge etc.) which are usually collected by the state and local governments under one single charge for ease of administration and collection. So, the land use charge combines previous land-based rates and property charges into one charge. Two factors hold true in 2012 and now, 2022. First, the allocation of resources by the Federal Government has continued to decline and has become more unreliable. Second, metropolitan states like Lagos and Oyo with surging populations require more rapid expansions with adequate provisions for urban infrastructure that improve the welfare of the people. These infrastructural developments can only happen with resources that federal allocations cannot take care of. For example, in 2006, the population of Oyo State was 5.58 million people, in 2022, Oyo State is estimated to have a 7.33 million population. Ibadan, the state capital, with a population of 3.565 million people, was listed by Statista in 2021 as the third most populous city in Nigeria after Lagos and Kano. Given these figures, a responsible and responsive government will find creative means of raising revenue for providing the much needed infrastructure. It is interesting to note that the present administration has taken a different approach to the enforcement of the law. The Seyi Makinde led administration has put property owners into consideration – the charges remain the same as when the law was enacted in 2012 – without any recourse to present economic realities. Also, payment of the charge has been made flexible – the payment could be made on basis of installments. The state is even ready to provide incentives for tenants who pay their charges early. But persons, who default in paying their charge, will get penalised. Early on in the current administration, the government had embarked on data capturing and enumeration of properties within the state. This forms the basis upon which the land use charge is effectively coordinated, and provides a more efficient way to implement the land use charge which the previous administration had begun. It seems clear that to reposition Oyo State as a modern society with state-of-the-art infrastructure that increases the quality of lives of residents and improves their lot as a developed society, both the leaders and the electorate must key in into policies such as the payment of the land use charge. Kunle Fagbemi, Ibadan. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Is the land use  Is the land use Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Is the land use  Is the land use ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details