Continued from last week  The path of separation leads to trouble with sinners, jest, ridicule, opposition, persecution, death and resurrection. It is a deliberate choice. Joseph was in Egypt. He landed in Egypt as sold slave. He landed in Egypt without preparing for it. Egypt wasa place of glamour,  power, pride, lust and moral corruption to which Abraham was a victim. But God was with Joseph. (Gen. 39:2). Joseph served in Egypt well and was promoted. The path of separation is a path of faithfulness, righteousness, uprightness in service. Joseph was an agent of blessing to His Master. (Gen.39:45). Joseph was tempted by a woman. He was lied against and defamed. He was sent to prison untried. He was put in the innermost prison yet God was with Him in prison (Gen 39:21). Joseph was taken from prison to palace to minister before Pharaoh. God created the circumstance to bring Joseph to the lime light. (Gen. 41:15,16). The Holy Spirit in Joseph was recognized (Gen.41:38). Joseph was promoted 41:41-45. Joseph maintained a life of separation and discipline in Egypt. Joseph ruled Egypt (v55; 42:6). His brethren bowed to him and Joseph revealed himself to his brethren who bowed.His father also bowed before him. Joseph did not return to Canaan, they all went to him in Egypt. This is fulfillment of his dream which they had wanted to abort by selling him off.  God’s perfect way, will for man’s life is a life of separation without which we can reach divine goal and standard. There are blessings of separation. When the Lord enjoined us to be separated from the world system, it is because of his love for us. Only a separated soul will fulfill destiny and purpose for which he is created. This calls for dedication and devotion; it calls for discipline and consecration; it calls for the transformation in the renewal of our mind to do that which is reasonable, acceptable and perfect will of God. Beloved this may seems difficult but let me assure you it is not impossible to attain. All you need is to give your life to Jesus Christ. Let him be the saviour and Lord over your life. Then like Joseph you will have his favour and the Lord will be with you so that that your ugly life is refined and re-moulded unto a life of celebration. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more