The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) has officially presented discharge certificates to three privatised enterprises that were earlier delisted from monitoring activities by the Bureau. They are Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) located in Sokoto State; Federal Superphosphate Fertiliser (FSFC), Kaduna State and Ikoyi Hotels Ltd. (Southern Sun), Lagos State. Presenting the certificates to the delisted companies in Abuja, Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr Alex A. Okoh said that the ceremony was in fulfilment of the covenants stipulated in the Post-Acquisition Plan (PAP) by the enterprises. Okoh noted that during the Bureau’s routine monitoring on the three delisted enterprises, the core investors were found to have achieved all, and in some instances, exceeded the obligations they covenanted to, in their respective PAPs. He added: “it is on this note that the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) granted approval for the delisting of the enterprises,” adding that the Federal Government would continue to support credible private sector investors in the country by providing a conducive environment for business to thrive and ensure the continued growth and development of the economy. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Ibeh, Uzoma Chidi, Head, Public Communications, BPE said Okoh maintained that despite their discharge from regular monitoring activities, the Bureau would occasionally request for information or visit the enterprises in order to report on their performances as showcases of the privatisation and reform programme of the Federal Government. Representatives of the three delisted enterprises, all commended the privatisation programme of the Federal Government and assured that they would promptly respond to requests by the Bureau. For the director of former Ikoyi Hotels, now Southern Sun, Mr Ernest Oji, since the acquisition of the hotel, the new owners have turned around the enterprise and employed over 300 workers who are well catered for even as he revealed that billions of naira in taxes are being remitted to the Federal Government. It would be recalled that FSFC was incorporated in September 1973 with an installed capacity of 100,000 metric tons per annum and privatised in 2005. It was handed over to the Core Investor, Messrs HEIKO Consortium in January 2006. Ikoyi Hotel, also called Nigerian Hotels Limited was established in 1032 and owned 100 per cent by the Federal Government, was privatised through Assets Sale to BETA Consortium Limited with a bid price of $13,867,000.000 and handed to the investor in 2003. The Cement Company of Northern Nigeria Plc (CCNN), Sokoto was commissioned in 1967 with the Federal Government owning 45 per cent shares of the Company. In 2000 the Federal Government shares were divested through a strategic Core Investor sale/Initial Public Offer. During its privatisation, an already existing shareholder and technical partner to CCNN, ScanCem/Dammnaz International Limited emerged as the core investor of the company, and in 2010, the company was acquired by BUA international. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs BPE presents discharge certificates to three privatised firms Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa BPE presents discharge certificates to three privatised firms ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more