The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Kaduna State chapter has said the current security malaise is not what the people of Kaduna bargained for when they voted for the All Progressives Congress (APC). This was contained in a statement made available to the Nigerian Tribune and signed by its chairman, Hassan Hyat on Tuesday. The statement noted that “we received with shock, news of an attack on a passenger train along the Abuja-Kaduna railway last night. “This is coming barely 24 hours after a similar attack on the Kaduna International Airport by terrorists in which a staff of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) lost his life. According to the statement, “the speed at which bandits and terrorists are taking over communities, highways, and most recently the airport and railway is unprecedented in the history of Kaduna State. “Hapless citizens have continued to be killed, maimed or displaced with no signs that the bandits would be slowing down or the APC-led government in the state would bring the insecurity challenge to an end.” Thus, it said, the current security malaise in the state is certainly not what the people of Kaduna State bargained for. Hyat who is also the chairman of the state PDP chairmen forum noted “one could ever have imagined, seven years ago, that a time would come when bandits and terrorists would take over our communities, our highways or even railways in such a brazen and daring fashion. “There’s simply a total failure of governance especially as it affects the security of lives and property. This is unacceptable. “We, therefore, call on the governor of Kaduna State to take charge of our security and governance in the state immediately by leading from the front. “The practice where government reduces itself to merely issuing updates with names of fatalities, each time there’s an attack, without doing more, has got to stop. “In this regard, we demand an urgent security summit comprising relevant stakeholders in the state to find solutions to this lingering existential problem, before it is too late. “Finally, we appeal to citizens to remain calm and pray for the repose of every soul needlessly killed, as well as speedy recovery for those receiving treatment. “The PDP shall continue to hold this government to account and remind it of its constitutional responsibility of safeguarding lives. We will not rest on our oars until peace returns to every part of our dear state.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details