Prince Dotun Babayemi, who has the full backing of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Elders Caucus in the Osun State chapter, speaks with KUNLE ODEREMI, on the conduct of governorship primary of the party last Saturday, saying he is poised to win the governorship poll coming up in the state in July. Having emerged from a parallel governorship primary, what do you see as the immediate and long term implications for the Osun PDP, especially as the countdown to the July election progresses? Let me start by expressing my profound appreciation to all members of PDP; delegates and our respected leaders, for their tremendous and massive support and the confidence reposed in me. This wonderful show of love which eventually translated to my emergence as the governorship candidate of our great party, is never taken for granted. The implications of my emergence is that our party is fortunate to present in me, a candidate who is capable on all fronts to confront the APC at the general polls. This by extension, means that the state will be blessed after my victory at the July polls with a governor that is naturally endowed to do the job at hand seamlessly because of my hands-on experience on the political turf and the corporate world. Against this backdrop, by the grace of God, I will ensure that the battered state of affairs in Osun are revitalised, reinvigorated, rejuvenated and repacked for the common good of the state and its people. It’s a determination and not conjectural rhetoric!  Why was it difficult for the two PDP camps in Osun State to reach a compromise to the extent you had parallel primaries? Interest and lack of sincerity. Insincerity on the part of those who should do the needful. You know cannot be approbating and reprobating at the same time. But regrettably in this case, that’s what is happening. Fumingly, some people, somewhere who are being clever by half, are hiding under a finger. The stark reality of this subterfuge and shenanigans will soon stare them in their purblind minds. I will not say more than that for now.  Many had thought that the PDP national headquarters would resolve the simmering feud in the Osun chapter during the buildup to the primary to avoid the current stalemate. What role did (PDP headquarters play from the beginning to the time of the primary? In honesty, was it fair and just in the way it handled the crisis and why? Seriously, the seeming dangerous curve we found ourselves in Osun PDP today, was an avoidable path if those steering our wheels had maintained the right lane of justice and remain unsullied as would have been expected. Honestly if things had been done properly, we would not have found ourselves where we are now. It is not too late to do the right thing. He who has ears, let him hear.  A lot of people had also hoped that the Osun PDP Elders Caucus would resolve the Osun PDP crisis and avert the current situation, where there are two candidates of the party for the July governorship poll. Why was it difficult for them to achieve harmony and concord during the run-up to the primary? Let me tell you, Osun is one of the few states in this country blessed with array of men and women of proven integrity and enviable pedigree. Most of them were involved in the formation of the PDP and naturally, they would not want the house they built to be destroyed under whatever guise. So in that strength, they have tried their best to ensure that we stay united as a party and it was so glaring but they have limitations. This is obviously because of the system we operate. If all critical stakeholders within the state and beyond had demonstrated the same sincerity as the leaders, this crisis would have been averted  Will you say the Iyorchia Ayu-led PDP national leadership allowed a level-playing field for the contest? How do you mean? Your guess is as good as mine. It’s proverbially like the case of a referee who drove away the stronger and the winning Team A from the field so as make way for the weaker Team B by unconventionally giving them the latitude to rove as they like. But the bad news to the referee and the pampered team is that: they have failed. The earlier they realized this, the better.  What is the way out of the current quagmire the Osun PDP has found itself in, following the conduct of parallel primaries and consequent emergence of two claimants to the governorship ticket of the party for the coming election? There are no two ways to it, I have been legally elected and this stands and cannot be vitiated. So simply, the way out is for those trying to unsettle us in Osun PDP to toe the line of reasoning by doing the wishes of old and young in the state, who have expressly chosen me as the face of the party to confront the APC and others at the coming polls. Hurriedly presenting a so called certificate to someone means nothing that amounts to nothing.  How will you rate your pedigree, experience and reach as a politician and likely candidate of the PDP, given the trajectory of the party in past governorship contests in the state? Do you represent that candidate that can break the jinx as PDP has been out of power for more than a decade in Osun? Politically, I am not a rookie; for I have been around for a while. I have paid my dues. I have my people across the 332 wards in the state who I have always interfaced with. These people know me and they know what I can do. I have been involved with them individually and corporately. Consequently as a fresh face, so to say, especially for the assignment which I’m well prepared for, I represent the vanguard that will break the jinx that has kept PDP and its people out of power all this while. What I am bringing to the table places me in a better stead among those eyeing the Okefia Government House. I’m a child of grace and God will graciously use me to break the jinx. Our people shall be liberated; it’s a task that must be accomplished.  APC appears to have a number of factors in its favour: incumbency power; good performance in terms of governance, coupled with the cognate experience and integrity of the incumbent governor. Do you believe you possess the wherewithal to create an electoral upset at the poll in July? But you know that 1+1 in politics does not automatically translate to 2. Different variables determine the success or otherwise of a party in any election. You just wait and see. And if I may ask; were these qualities not there four years ago when PDP defeated APC? They eventually sailed through because of many factors which bordered on candidates involved but this time round, it will be a different ball game. Watch out! Aside having prerequisite academic qualifications and experience, politics is all about people. Please go to town and feel the pulse of the people, you will see that the state is waiting for me and the PDP.  Under what terms do you think you would want to step down if the PDP top hierarchy should approach you in its bid to present a united front, formidable candidate for the July poll? But you know that winners don’t quit. Besides, this struggle is not just about me, yes I am the symbol but there must be a collective resolution. Some aspirants stepped down for me under the arrangement of our respected leaders. These are valued men who are equally eminently qualified to rule this state but in their wisdom and love for the party, they have decided to support me. All these set of people are to take a decision. More importantly, I joined the race for a divine assignment to bring succour to our people and that I cannot trade away for any price.  With the benefit of hindsight, how would you rationalise the role of money in politics, especially in a contest like the governorship? How and why such opinions? It’s a sad commentary. Unfortunately that is where we have found ourselves. Politics has been heavily monetized. The moneybags are capitalising on the hunger in the land to surreptitiously hoodwink the poor in the land. Everything now goes with a cost. That is however not a problem because money is not everything. The most important thing is being loved and appreciated by the electorate and this I enjoy from my people.  What will you consider as your greatest fear, particularly now that the party has come up with two candidates for the next election and why? Fear is alien to me, it doesn’t exist in my dictionary. If you check through my voyage in life, you will appreciate the fact that I have surmounted many unbelievable hurdles. I have come to a point in my life to know that he who is with God, should not be cowed by anything. So nobody or situation can bully me out of my God-driven vision. I’m in it for a worthy purpose and this must be seen through to a logical conclusion. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gowon tasks FG  Gowon tasks FG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more