Three suspected kidnappers have been neutralised and 43 cult suspects arrested with various arms and ammunition in Delta State. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bright Edafe, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), made the disclosure in a statement made available to journalists in the state. He said the three kidnap suspects were neutralised on March 15 after they were trailed to their hideout in Oghara by operatives from the command’s Special Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crime squad. According to him, two AK 47 rifles, three pump action guns and 62 rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the hoodlums. The 43 cult suspects were arrested at various hideouts in Ogedengbe and Hausa Quarters, Warri, as well as Jesse town, Ethiope West Local Government Area where, on March 14, a cult clash between Eiye and Arobaga confraternities ensued leading to the killing of four suspected cultists. Following the killing, the Command’s Anti-Cultism Unit, Dragon Patrol, Eagle-Net Special Squad and Safe Delta Patrol teams were drafted to Jesse town to restore sanity. DSP Edafe further disclosed that three members of Arobaga confraternity namely: Victor John, Nelson Friday, and Festus Friday who were alleged to have killed the four members of Eiye confraternity were arrested and sanity restored. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…3 suspected kidnappers neutralised  3 suspected kidnappers neutralised Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…3 suspected kidnappers neutralised  3 suspected kidnappers neutralised ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team