The Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has declared the new Edo State Independent Electoral Commission (ESIEC) law faulty and to that extent, it announced its boycott of the coming local government election in the state. The Edo APC emphasised that the ESIC law does not conform to the Electoral Act of 2022, and assured that it would contest the new law in court and also pull out of the election which the law is meant for. Speaking through Peter Uwadiae, its Publicity Secretary on Tuesday, the party said it was worrisome that a democratically elected government would engage in activities that run contrary to the law, adding that there was no provision in this year’s budget to run an election that would require the humongous amount of money primed for the election. According to him, “the most important part of the law, a 90 days notice to the parties, has now been shortened to 20 days which should not have been done without the input of the people. In conducting the election, there must be a synergy between the Electoral Act and ESIEC law. In other words, the provision of the ESIEC law should not run contrary to the provisions of the Electoral Act. And if the law runs contrary to the Act, the Electoral Act should take precedence. “We are very worried that a Governor that was elected democratically will no longer preserve the tenet of democracy. That portends danger for us as Edo people. The APC is boycotting the election because of this aberration. “The new Electoral Act 2022 shows that the local government election is no longer a jamboree. It has been taken beyond the governors sitting in their offices or bedroom and reel out figures for each local government,” he added. He stated that trying to shorten the period for the election would not guarantee a free, fair and credible election. “The right to take part in an election is recognised by law so the people must be considered and the process of the election must the strictly adhered to. It is a fundamental right of the Edo State Government to conduct the election, but the question is, Why the hurry after we have been made to wait for this long? “The vacuum being experienced now should have been taken care of long ago by conducting an election before the end of the tenure of the past chairmen. The APC has been on the neck of the PDP led Government as to why the elections were not conducted. Unfortunately, the House of Assembly concocted a document which they call the ESIEC law, which saw them amending the most important part of the law, a 90 days notice to the party has now been shortened to 20 days which should have been done without the input of the people. “As we speak, the money that would be used for the election is not captured in the budget. So where is the government going to get the money to finance the election? There is no supplementary budget coming from the Government to the House of Assembly, (if any). That is why the APC has always maintained that this state government is not a serious one. “Also, the law must be amended with the nod of 2/3 of the members. Today Edo State does not have that 2/3 with 14 members being shot out. It then means that there is no House of Assembly in Edo because it has only 10 members. “The timetable for the election also suggests that the screening is coming after the election would have been done. The government is ridiculing the state with this action. “We are set to save the state from the grip of Governor Godwin Obaseki and we are starting with the local government election. We are also going to approach the court to ensure that this aberration is not allowed to take place,” he reassured. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details