THE Executive Secretary Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam, has named the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Dr Ignatius Kaigama to lead the 2021 main/2022 Easter pilgrimage to Israel, Rome, Greece and Jordan as spiritual Father. The NCPC boss made this known while addressing the Catholic Bishop Conference of Nigeria in their first plenary in Abuja at the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria, recently. Rev. Pam in his address appreciated the Catholic church worldwide for their services to God and humanity in making sure the Christian holy sites in the world are preserved. He commended the Catholic church for putting time and resources in preservation and building cathedrals and maintenance of its facilities to make sure history is preserved. “in my one year, eight months in office I must commend the leadership of the Catholic church worldwide for making sure most Christian holy sites in the world are well kept and preserved.” Pam praised the preservation of the Church in Antioch in Turkey and Mount Nebo in Jordan as he said, “I was in Turkey in Antioch where Christians were first called Christians and Tarsus the house of Paul and also Mount Nebo in Jordan all these  were well preserved by the Catholic Church.” Rev Pam  showed deep appreciation to the Catholic Church for its tremendous efforts in wisdom and obedience to the law of the land while he also intimated them that NCPC is the only agency saddled with the responsibility of regulating pilgrimage in Nigeria. He said this came as a result of the wisdom of the Catholic church in Nigeria who were able to put a document alongside other stakeholders to establish the NCPC Act which empowers it  to regulate and give the approval of visa to intending Pilgrims through the then Ambassador of Italy. The NCPC boss told the Bishops of the role of NCPC in coordinating Christian pilgrimage regardless of denominations. The number one Pilgrim officer of the Federation used the opportunity to hint them of his meeting with the Ambassador of Italy to Nigeria who he said, informed him that all COVID-19 travel restrictions, had been lifted. He stressed that the Ambassador also made it clear that no Pilgrim would go to Rome except through the regulating body of the NCPC. Rev. Pam disclosed that since the restrictions to Rome had been lifted, the NCPC would commence in full its Pilgrimage to Rome, Israel, Jordan and Israel-Rome accordingly. He furthermore briefed them of the travel cost implications and requirements. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Most Rev Kaigama  Most Rev Kaigama Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Most Rev Kaigama  Most Rev Kaigama ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details