The Chairman and Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig-Gen. Mohamed Marwa (Rtd) has explained that he had to undergo a surgical procedure recently to treat a long-standing lower back pain that was due to his sporting activities in his younger years in the Nigerian Army. He stated this on Thursday while responding to questions from journalists after a meeting with some French experts on drug supply reduction and law enforcement in his office at the NDLEA National Headquarters, in Abuja. When asked if he was admitted to a London hospital to undergo surgery as being rumoured, Gen. Marwa said “Indeed, I recently had surgery for long-standing lower back pain that was due to my sporting activities in my younger years in the Nigerian Army. Aside from being an avid polo player, I was an active member of the Nigerian Army athletics team in the 1970s when I participated in the long jump and triple jump events and hockey as well.” While dismissing all other insinuations, he said he has since returned to his desk to continue his vision of strengthening the Agency and the mission of curbing drug trafficking and abuse in the country. Speaking earlier at the meeting, the leader of the delegation and Executive Director, Africa, Smiths Detection, Mr Gabriel Pequignot said the meeting was to discuss areas of partnership. In his response, the NDLEA boss said support from Smiths Detection “is a very important component of our work. We need the equipment to aid our task of drug supply reduction” and he assured that “NDLEA will continue in its stride towards the attainment of its ultimate goal of making Nigeria drug-free and will continue to respond strongly and appropriately to all issues of drug abuse and trafficking. While pursuing our drug supply reduction goals, we have intensified the War Against drug Abuse (WADA) campaign across the states of the federation in pursuit of our drug demand reduction goal.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity