The Director-General of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Dr Mansur Liman, has said that they will ensure free and fair general elections in 2023. According to him, even though the nation is no doubt passing through challenging times, “we should therefore play our role as the fourth estate of the realm, as impartial arbiters to ensure that the forthcoming General elections are conducted in a free and transparent atmosphere. We in Radio Nigeria are committed to this.” He made this known, on Thursday, in Lokoja Kogi state during the 10th-anniversary celebration and foundation laying stone of the ultra-modern studios and transmitter hall of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Prime 101.5 F.M on Mount Patti. The Director-General who was represented by the Zonal Director, North Central FRCN, Mallam Haruna Idris, said “We must continue to adhere to the proud traditions of FRCN of upholding the people and uniting the nation through objective, balanced, fair and excellent news and programming. His words, “The FRCN Prime FM, Lokoja is one of the 42 FM Stations sited in all states across the Country. Prime FM 101.5MHZ, Lokoja has been discharging its primary responsibility of promoting peace and unity in Kogi State for decade now. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “I want to say that in spite of its inherent challenges, it has succeeded in discharging its primary mandate of informing, educating and entertaining the good people of the confluence state. It is fortunate for the good people of Kogi to have one station of the largest Radio Network be located in the state. However, it is also unfortunate to let you know that the station is wrongly located in valley which is a bad site for a Radio Station to operate optimally. “As a result of the wrong location of the station, Prime FM has been experiencing poor coverage, signal of which only 4 local governments out of 21 local governments in Kogi State enjoy our broadcasting services. He, therefore, commended the general manager, Alhaji Momohjimoh Adeiza, of his unrelenting efforts, who he challenged to make sure that under his watch this relocation to Mount Patti is achieved order to compete favourably in wide coverage, clear reception to discharge its primary responsibility to the good people Kogi State. Earlier, the general manager of the station, Alhaji Momohjimoh Adeiza commended the state government for their assistance but called on the state governor to kindly come to their rescue so that they can get good ultra-modern studios and transmitter halls on Mount I Patti. He also commended the management team of FRCN headed by the director-general, Dr Mansur Liman, for making the programme a reality. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs We will ensure free, fair general election in 2023 ― FRCN DG ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity