The biological son of the immediate pass governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, Alhaji Mustapha Sule Lamido has declared interest to contest gubernatorial position of the state under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023 general election. Alhaji Mustapha Sule Lamido became the first to declare for governorship in the state among all the political parties adding that his aspirations are based on the party (PDP) members and many other groups calling him to join the governorship race in the state. Speaking to newsmen shortly after his official declaration held at his resident in Dutse capital, the 39 years old Mustapha Sule Lamido said, he wants to contest the governorship to contribute his quota in rescuing Jigawa State from its current economic and social quagmire. He said, “everybody can bear witness that, things are not going in the right direction in Jigawa State, and there is an urgent need for patriotic people to make a sacrifice for emancipating the state, which he now offered himself for the job.” Mustapha who is the son of Jigawa’s strong man and also one of the PDP founding fathers, Alhaji Sule Lamido maintained that, if he wins the election he will operate an inclusive government that will be build upon consensus, consultation, listening to suggestions and good ideas in according to PDP philosophy. The gubernatorial aspirant than solicited the support of all PDP members in the state for actualizing his ambition of becoming the party gubernatorial flag bearer for 2023 general election. He, however, told the thousands of his supporters and PDP members who gathered to witness the formal declaration that, he is ready for consensus and will remain a obedient party member at all levels at all times. It can be recalled that the forum of former local government chairmen from 2007 to 2011 in Jigawa State had on January this year endorsed Mustapha Lamido for PDP gubernatorial ticket which generated a lot of debate amo g the party members and political analysts in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Lamido’s son joins Jigawa  Lamido’s son joins Jigawa Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Lamido’s son joins Jigawa  Lamido’s son joins Jigawa ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details