Gunmen, on Monday morning, attacked the Otoko Police Divisional Headquarters Obowo in Obowo Local Government Area of Imo State, leaving two police officers injured. The gunmen according to the report invaded the station at about 3 am shooting sporadically, a development that left residents terrified. However, the gallant police operatives engaged the invaders and resisted them. A source said that after the shooting, it was discovered that the station was standing because the police were able to withstand the gunfire but two police officers were injured. Meanwhile, the Imo State Police Command spokesperson, Michael Abattam, has confirmed the attack even as he maintained that no life was lost. He said: “Apart from the minimal damage on the transit camp and a vehicle, no life was lost.” He said that the police operative who sustained a minor gunshot injury has been treated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Gunmen attack police station, injure two officers in Imo Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Gunmen attack police station, injure two officers in Imo ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details