The Federal High Court sitting in Kano presided over by Justice G. Iyang has dismissed a case file by former Kano State Public Complaint and Anti Corruption Commission, Barrister Muhyi Magaji Rimin Gado, praying the court to restrain police from arresting and prosecuting him over the complaint of alleged forgery against him received from Kano State House of Assembly. Justice Iyang further said her court lacks supervisory power over Kano State House of Assembly, stressing that Rimin Gado ought to have reached out to the Kano State High Court, not Federal High Court. However, in her judgement on Tuesday, Justice Iyang maintained that the application filed by Muhuyi is incompetent, saying allegations of the violation of his fundamental right was a mere ancillary claim which doesn’t fall within the purview of fundamental rights. The judge also upheld that for the court to determine fundamental rights violation, the claim of the applicant must be on the infringement of his fundamental rights. She however dismissed the case for being incompetent. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.