Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caucus in the House of Representatives, on Wednesday, endorsed Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, as the ruling party’s Presidential candidate in the 2023 general election. In his opening address, the Speaker, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, who described Tinubu as the only candidate for the Presidency, challenged those intending to vie for the Presidency to desist from giving flimsy excuses to declare their intention. He maintained that it does not speak well of a party that boasts as the largest political party in the continent, not to see anyone that could rival Tinubu barely seven weeks to the APC party primary. “I personally think it is wrong we are only hearing of names and nobody is campaigning,” Hon Gbajabiamila noted. While addressing the lawmakers, the former Lagos State Governor, averred that he is the most qualified Nigerian for the exalted position of President in the 2023 general elections, saying: “No other one in the race, hidden or open. I am the only one in the race that is most competent, most qualified to be your President,” he said. While soliciting for the lawmakers’ endorsement, he urged them to mobilise all their supporters to vote for him at the party primary. Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.2023 election: Reps APC Caucus endorses Tinubu as only Presidential candidate 2023 election: Reps APC Caucus endorses Tinubu as only Presidential candidate ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity