There was a commotion in Abuja, on Tuesday, as Okada riders attacked officials of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Taskforce at Lugbe Airport Road with weapons including a cutlass and a knive. It took the combined efforts of officers of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), the Police and other agencies to overpowered the attackers. The taskforce also succeeded in impounding 39 motorcycles. Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Ikharo Attah, said the team continued with its ministerial mandate of ridding the road corridors of nuisance, without any premonition of the cutlass attack. Attah disclosed that the defiant Okada riders have continued to violate the traffic rules and regulations along the Airport Road and other places where restrictions orders still subsist. According to him, the Lugbe-Airport road axis is one of the restricted places where Okada riders are not allowed to operate but have they remained adamant in disobeying the laws, and notwithstanding the resistance of the illegal Okada operators, the Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, and the new Director of DRTS, Dr Abdulateef Bello, have vowed to remain committed to cleaning the city and restoring environmental sanity in all parts the territory. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “Today was very fruitful and successful, we came out again for the daily clean up with the new Director of DRTS, Dr Abdulateef Bello, showing strong conviction, with other officers also on the ground carrying out our operations. “In the morning we carried the operation of freeing traffic and removing illegal motorcycles from the road corridors while engaging in route point to point traffic flow initiative at the Danbatta and Lugbe bridge. “The operation was not without hitches, we have impounded 39 motorcycles, but came under severe attack by some okada riders who came with cutlasses. We didn’t know they were having cutlasses, it was when some of the officers confronted them to impound the motorcycles that were attacked. “But by the gallantry of the Nigerian Police and other Officers, the attackers were overpowered. There is some form of resistance by the Okada operators, but there is also a strong political will from the FCT Minister and the New Director DRTS and all the officers here to rid Abuja of all nuisances.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details