Dr Kayode Ajulo, a constitutional lawyer, says the consensus arrangement by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its national executive officers is a violation of the Electoral Act 2022. Ajulo made this assertion on Friday in Abuja, making reference to Section 82(3) of the Electoral Act, 2022. “It provides that the election of members of the executive committee or other governing body of a political party, including the election to fill a vacant position shall be conducted democratically,” he said. He said the section further allowed members of the party or duly elected delegates to vote in support of a candidate of their choice. Ajulo said that the provision means that the only mode of election of members of the executive committee or governing body of a political party shall be by direct or indirect election. “It therefore implies that the Electoral Act, 2022 has expressly abrogated consensus mode of election of members of the executive committee or other governing body of a political party,” he added. The lawyer said that the position of law was clear to the effect that the provisions of the constitution or a statute should not be interpreted in isolation. “It is settled that in interpreting the provisions or sections of a statute or indeed the constitution, such provisions or sections should not be read in isolation of the other parts,” the lawyer said. He said that the statute or constitution should be read as a whole in order to determine the intendment of the makers of the statute or constitution. According to him, it is therefore apposite to draw inference from other provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022 in order to arrive at a holistic conclusion. “Section 84(2) of the Act provides that the procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct, indirect primaries or consensus. “Section 84(9) of the Act further provides that a political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position,” Ajulo said. According to him, this indicates their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate. He said that the provisions of sections 84(2) and 84(9) of the Electoral Act specifically deal with the conduct of party primaries. Ajulo however said that it was safe to conclude that the drafters never intended that consensus mode should be applied in the election of members of the executive of a political party. He said it was imperative to advise decision-makers of APC to be wary of the harms that would be occasioned if the members of the executive of the party were elected by consensus mode. He said that if the consensus was used at the National Convention of the APC, it could be challenged by appropriate party members with potential disastrous consequences for the party at the general election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…APC consensus candidates  APC consensus candidates Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…APC consensus candidates  APC consensus candidates ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details