Some residents of Eruwa in Ibarapa East State Constituency, Oyo State, got motorcycles, deep freezers, generating sets and cash gifts in an empowerment programme organized by Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Honourable Adebo Ogundoyin. At the programme held in front of the Eruwa office of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a total of 21 brand new motorcycles, 6 Generating Sets and 5 Deep Freezers were presented to select constituents. In addition, 40 constituents received cash to support their businesses. Ogundoyin said the donation is positively impacting the lives of his constituents as well as appreciating them for entrusting him with the mandate to represent them at the State House of Assembly. He explained that the donation is specifically targeted the beneficiaries to boost their businesses. He hinted that a mega empowerment program for both Eruwa and Lanlate residents is in the offing, assuring that more people will be captured and considered as beneficiaries in the said programme.  “This gesture is in continuation of my efforts to make positive impacts in the lives of my people. It is a way of appreciating them for trusting me with the mandate to represent them in the Oyo State House of Assembly. I am happy we are making steady progress. The love and support given to me by the teeming constituents in Eruwa and in Lanlate cannot be quantified, and I will forever be grateful,” Ogundoyin said. On the PDP in Oyo State, the Speaker urged all members of the party in the state to come under one umbrella and desist from intra-party bickering capable of derailing the good programs and policies of Governor Seyi Makinde. “There’s bound to be dissension in any association, organization or even among family and friends. The best is to always explore all ways of resolving those disputes. “Time is now for everyone to join the PDP mainstream under Governor Makinde. It is when we remain united that we will be able to consolidate on the gains and achievements of the present administration, and it is through unity that we can successfully win the 2023 general election in the state and at the federal level,” Ogundoyin said. Some PDP leaders who spoke at the program including Morakinyo Kasali and Wole Opadeye appealed to residents of Eruwa who are yet to get their voter’s cards to do so now in order to allow them to exercise their franchise in 2023. Recall that the Speaker had earlier distributed 14 motorcycles to constituents in Lanlate, another fifteen motorcycles to indigenous security outfits in his constituency to boost security as well as a cash donation to constituents in Lanlate. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team