One of Bowen University’s lecturers, Tolulope Omolekan, from the College of Agriculture, Engineering and Sciences of the institution, has won a Fulbright Foreign Student Programme to be a visiting scholar to Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, in view of his outstanding academic and research efforts in the university system. Omolekan, a doctoral student at the University of Ibadan, specialises in chronic kidney diseases, vitamin D and the use of biotechnological tools to improve nutrients in plants. According to the Head, Information and Public Relations of the university, Toba Adaramola  Tolulope was a recipient of both local grants and foreign fellowships, which he said included the Thomas Bassir Basic Foundation Seed Grants, Nigeria in 2015. The Research Training Fellowship for Developing Country Scientist, India (RTF-DCS) in 2019 and a co-awardees of a Bowen University Research Grant in 2022. He also won the Keystone scholarship to present one of his major findings on vitamin D in a symposium/workshop organised by JoEllen Welsh and James C. Fleet, now a Fulbright Foreign Student Program Visiting Scholar to Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, The University Public Relations officer disclosed further that the university emerged winner of the Public Speaking Contest at the 9th All Nigerian Universities Debate and Quiz Championship, hosted by the University of Ilorin between February 13 and 19, 2022. It was gathered that 25 universities took part in the tournament, which comprised of debate, public speaking and quiz, where  Bowen University emerged first out of over 90 participants in the public speaking contest. Oreoluwa Odutoye, a 400 level Medical student, and Olalekan Adeyemo a 500 level Law student, as well the President of the Law Society of the university represented Bowen University at the event. Moreover, Bowen University did wonderfully well in another quiz tournament that involved some other tertiary institutions in the country. Chukwuemeka Emeruwa, a 500 level Law student and David Yomi-Oshatimi, a 400 level Law student and  Opeyemi Oyelakin, a 300 level Economics student represented Bowen University and they came second in this category, Tribune online learnt. In addition,  Oreoluwa Fabamise, a 300 level Public Health student in the university, who was the link between Bowen University and City Light International Assembly in Chicago. She participated in research and submitted a video speech that qualifies her to be the best out of the over hundred entries received from Nigeria for the annual multi-day event GLOW conference organized by the Assembly in Chicago. Speaking at a programme organized to celebrate the award winners by the university, held recently the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Professor Joshua Ogunwole declared that the school’s management would continue to press forward in training students and staff to become the best anywhere in the world. “This is in line with the institution’s core values of Excellence, Godliness, Innovation Leadership and Entrepreneurship,” the Vice-Chancellor said. The vice-chancellor stressed further that the university would continue to nurture talents and celebrate achievers appropriately. He congratulated the parents of the students and urged those who are yet to manifest not to give up. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team