The 36 state governors under the aegis of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) have appealed the recent court judgment which dismissed their suit challenging the Federal Government on the deduction of $418 million from the Federation Account to settle debts owed consultants engaged by the States and Local Governments on the Paris Club refunds. Not satisfied with the judgement delivered by Justice Inyang Ekwo who dismissed the suit filed by the state governors through their attorneys, the governors in the appeal notice, advised the general public and all financial institutions in Nigeria and abroad that the matter is subjudice and urging them to desist from dealing with the defendants in the suit. According to them, “With respect to promissory notes issued to them and intended to be discounted and given value from funds due to the states of the federation from the federation account in respect of judgment debts arising from suits in connection with the London Paris Club contracts pending the hearing and determination of the appeal. “Be it known that any person or persons who take steps in respect of the promissory notes in the face of the pending appeal do at his or her peril.” The Defendants also urged the general public not to deal with: Dr Chris Asoluka (doing business under the name and style of NIPAL Consulting Network, Linas International Limited, Joe Odey Agi, SAN (Practicing under the name and style of Joe Agi, SAN & Associates), Riok Nigeria Limited, Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu, Dr Ted Iseghohi Edwards, Panix Alert Security Systems Limited, Dr George Uboh, Ned Munir Nwoko, Prince Orji Orizu and Barr. Olaitan Bello. Recall that Justice Inyang Ekwo dismissed the suit by the attorneys-general of the 36 states against the Federal Government in a judgment delivered recently saying the attorneys-general have not shown enough evidence to accord them the right to institute the action. Justice Ekwo held that there was no express evidence to show that the 36 state governors consented to the filing of the suit. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details