Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum on Friday commissioned a newly built three-floor edifice in Maiduguri, tagged Borno Investment House, which is owned by Borno Investment Company Limited. Before now, the company operated in a rented building since it commenced operation in April 1987, making 35 years of being tenants, Mohammed Bukar Umar, Managing Director of the company, said during the commissioning. The Borno Investment company is fully owned by the Borno State Government, established for the purpose of promoting business opportunities by making “quoted and unquoted” investments within and outside the State to stimulate entrepreneurship and industrial growth from local and foreign investments that contribute towards increasing internally generated revenue for the State. Governor Zulum in July 2019, appointed Umar as the company’s new MD and afterwards approved funds for the company to build an investment house to end its years of rent. The MD explained to Governor Zulum that the Borno Investment company is using the whole third floor which has offices, board room, library, registry and tea rooms for its operations, while it intends to rent out the first and second floors to corporate companies that will become tenants. The new investment house is a spacious edifice located around the Post Office, a popular commercial area in Maiduguri. Meanwhile, during the commissioning, Governor Zulum eulogized the Managing Director of Borno Investment Company, Mohammed Bukar Umar for what the Governor described as his extreme dedication to integrity. Zulum promised continued support to reposition the company to enhance the economy of the state for the benefit of citizens. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…After 35 years  After 35 years Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…After 35 years  After 35 years ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more