The Director-General of the Institute of Peace and Conflict Resolution (IPCR), Dr Bakut Tswah Bakut, has said the Institute will create a Social Media platform, to curb the incessant communal crisis in Anambra state. Dr Bakut stated this on Friday, in Awka, while addressing a stakeholders’ roundtable on the boundary dispute/conflict between the worried communities of Ayamelum local government of the state. He said the platform will offer a means for the leaders of the affected communities to share information with the Peace Institute, enable the leaders of Though to engage and involve their communities in new and potentially transformative ways and for identification of land defaulters, evidence sources and submission of distress reports. “This will help us to support and prevent further communal disputes in the area. And if this measure work, it will be instituted across the country, he added. Bakut said the stakeholders’ meeting became necessary because of the recurrent nature of the conflict and its changing dynamics. He tasked the communities to tow the part of peace in resolving its age-long boundary dispute, noted that violence was not an option. The eight disputed communities are; Omor, Igbakwu, Anaku, Umumbo, Umuerum, Ifite-Ogwari, Umueje and Omasi. He said the communities have been involved in boundary disputes for the past 100 years. According to him, the objective of the meeting was to find other natural means of addressing the issues, in which the plan WhatUp charting group is among. He urged the communities leaders to shift their focus to empowering the youth and women to become economically independent and progressive-minded. The IPCR boss called on the state government to make public and implement the reports by the various affected communities and support the implementation of their resolution. The traditional ruler of the Igbakwu community, Igwe Professor Onuora Nwuneli, on his submission, accused politicians of being behind communal crises across the country. The President General of the Anaku community, Chief Paul Nwuba, who supported the call for boundary demarcation, informed IPCR management that his community alone lost about ten million naira (10,000,000), during the communal war that claims lives and destruction of properties between his people and Omor neighbouring community. He noted that the land demarcation will bring a lasting solution to the age-long crisis in the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more