In yet another illustration of nature’s disdain for hybrids, Florida governor Ron DeSantis issued a proclamation on Tuesday recognizing Emma Weyant, a Sarasota native and Virginia swimmer, as the winner of the 500-yard freestyle at the NCAA Championships held last week. The NCAA had given the gold medal to University of Pennsylvania transgender swimmer Lia Thomas. Thomas had supposedly made history when “she” won the freestyle as the first openly transgender national swimming champion, finishing the event with a time of 4:33.24. Weyant, a freshman Cavaliers swimmer, came behind at 4:34.99, but the caveat shook the nation: she is a biological woman.  And DeSantis, relying on the Fairness in Women’s Sports Act which he signed in June 2021 and which provides that “an athletic team or sport that is designated for females, women, or girls may not be open to student of the male sex, based on the student’s biological sex listed on the student’s official birth certificate at the time of birth”, would have none of the NCAA’s hogwash. He laid seriously into the organisation:  “By allowing men to compete in women’s sports, the NCAA is destroying opportunities for women, making a mockery of its championships, and perpetuating a fraud.” I concur. Lia Thomas, isolated and looking miserable on the platform, tried to savour “her” win but “her” misery was in ample evidence, a stark illustration of the dangers inherent in shifting the old landmarks. I’ve seen pictures of transgenders and I hope (against hope) that I never meet one. I must confess to a feeling of sheer revulsion at the very thought of transgenderism, gender reassignment surgery and feminism, but they are facts of our convoluted world and are, per T.S Eliot in another context, “not worth forgetting.” Time was when America was content with Black rights, the factor behind the Civil War. But along came women’s rights, transgender rights, the right to bestiality (including sex with horses), throuple (three-person relationship, e.g a woman and two men or two women and a man) rights and all sorts. . The USA beckoned, and Europe embraced trans madness with its traditional barbarity. Now, women conduct weddings with themselves, with objects such as trees and buildings, and with animals. This is one reason Putin detests the West with passion. But a people who can make a man a woman can do anything, and will not be defeated in war. In the days when transgenderism did not even come to mind, King Solomon wrote: “A bundle of myrrh is my well beloved unto me; he shall lie all night betwixt my breasts. My beloved is unto me as a cluster of camphire in the vineyards of Engedi. Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thou hast doves’ eyes. Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant: also our bed is green.” It is definitely sweet for man and woman to be together for, as the son of David once asked: “How can one be warm alone?” Indeed, how can? Do not speak to me of blankets and sweaters: warmth lies in a spouse. A man needs to drink from his well always, and wells are female, giving man the sweetness and companionship of life. A man seeking another man to do the duties of a woman ought to be bound hand and foot and dumped in crocodile-infested waters. Even animals deserve a feast. Of course, these days, strange couples seek warmth in strange ways. Recently, a British couple were stunned when a neighbour of theirs, a married man, became pregnant. It turned out that the pregnant being was actually a biological female who had transitioned into a man, while his wife was a transgender woman. In other words, two transgenders got married but mother nature refused to be mocked: the husband got impregnated by his wife! There you have it: nature’s last laugh. If the case of Charlie Evans, a Newcastle trans activist who detransitioned to a woman in 2018 after living as a man for 10 terrible years revealed anything, it is the craving by hundreds of transgender people to return to their original gender. Evans, a biological female, realized that she had been conned by the gender mafia, stopped taking her hormone therapy, and went back to being a woman. Yes, because of the Left’s devious agenda, the number of young people seeking gender transition in the West is staggering. But what is little reported is the fact that many of them later regret their decision, as we learn from the case of Keira Bell, a 23-year-old British woman who, in March 2020, took a gender-transition clinic, the Tavistock GIDS clinic, to court for ruining her life as a teen. Her charge: the clinic did not question her sufficiently before making her a male. Lamented Bell: “I should have been challenged more. No one was there to say anything different.” Of course they wouldn’t. Don’t let the bogus study deceive you: transgenders aren’t happy people, and they are never accepted by society anywhere in the world. Listen to ANI, an outfit which calls itself South Asia’s leading multimedia news agency, shedding crocodile tears for the transgender community in Pakistan: “Transgenders in Pakistan continue to live a life of misery in the country where they are treated as lesser beings and violence against them remains unabated. According to Pakistan’s Transgender Association, at least 73 members of the transgender community have been killed since 2015. The body has demanded strict legal action by the state…Forced marriages, physical and emotional torture are common forms of abuse against the transgender community in Pakistan, recorded in studies done by various organizations. The worst thing is if police arrest perpetrators of violence, the victim’s family tend to forgive them in return for money,” said Saro Imran, a transgender activist running a community-based organization in Pakistan. Due to the government’s incompetency, there are very few schools and educational institutions for the transgender community as the enrolment of transgender persons in mainstream schools is negligible as these schools do not provide a third gender option in the admission certificate.” And so when I see some morons calling for gay/lesbian rights in this clime, I only chuckle. Many of the so-called feminist activists behind this advocacy are packaged oloshos deceiving society with a false ideology. They own stupendous sums that have no basis in paid work or entrepreneurship. They are agents of Western oligarchs seeking to torment the African society with their toxic agenda. Gay/lesbian rights will open the door to transgender rights, and a perpetual life of agony for victims. There are only two genders: male and female. Putting ideology over biology, to use DeSantis’ words, won’t change that fact. Transgenders aren’t happy anywhere: so resolutely does nature detest artifice. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details