Kwara State police command says its officers and men in the Tactical Team of the command have succeeded in killing three members of a notorious kidnapping gang said to have been terrorising the state in recent time. In a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Okasanmi Ajayi, on Tuesday, said that the tactical team of the state Police Command in collaboration with members of the vigilance team and local hunters engaged the kidnappers in the Ejiu community, Obbo-Ile and Osi forests in the Ekiti local government area of the state between 09:00 pm on Monday and Tuesday morning. The statement also said that one of the neutralized kidnappers was identified as Dogo and was said to have been on the wanted list of the police for the killings of one Femi Afolayan for failure to pay ransom sometime in February 2022. The command, which said that some members of the criminal gang escaped with gunshot injuries, added that exhibits recovered from them includes one cut to size locally made pistol, one locally-made gun, four cutlasses, bunch of criminal charms, two half eating roasted yams, one empty water bottle and six expended cartridges. The statement reads: “While on the trail of the kidnappers abducting and in few cases killing their victims around Kwara South senatorial zone of Kwara State, especially the recent kidnap and killings of a political party women leader and others in Obbo, Eruku and Isapa axis, Tactical teams of Kwara State Police Command working with the Vigilante and local Hunters, engaged the kidnappers in Ejiu, Obbo Ile and Osi forest at about 2100hrs of 28/3/2022 and 29/3/2022. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “During the exchange of fire between the kidnappers and the joint teams of vigilante and police, three of the kidnappers were neutralized, while others escaped with gunshot injuries. “Exhibits recovered from them includes 1. One cut to size locally made pistol. 2. One locally-made gun 3. Four (4) cutlasses. 5. Bunch of criminal charms. 6. Two half eating roasted yams. 7. One empty water bottle. 8. Six expended cartridges. “One of the neutralized kidnappers was identified as Dogo who has been in the wanted list of the police for the killings of one Femi Afolayan for failure to pay ransom sometime in February 2022. “Efforts are ongoing to track and arrest the fleeing kidnappers to enable freeing the axis that has lately been termed a danger zone by the citizens of the area. “The commissioner of police Kwara State, CP Tuesday Assayomo, warns criminals to pack their bags and leave Kwara State, as the command is double charged to ensure that citizens and residents of Kwara state sleep with their two eyes closed at night. “He further enjoined the people of Kwara State to continue to work with the security agencies by exposing the criminal elements in their localities.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details