Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has begun the construction of road networks worth N2.5billion in Garo town and the neighbouring communities in Kabo Local Government Area. He said the project is to facilitate and strengthen the movement of citizens and farm produce in rural towns and communities, as part of the good service delivery of the present administration. He added that 18km road from Kanye-Kabo-Dugabau, which crosses eight wards out of the 10 wards of Kabo, was started in 2018 and abandoned halfway. Speaking on his behalf on the occasion the Commissioner for Local Governments and Chieftaincy Affairs, Murtala Sule Garo, who was supported by the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure Development, Idris Wada, at the groundbreaking ceremony on Saturday, assured that Ganduje administration would work round the clock to improve rural infrastructural development. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Ganduje stated that the contract was revoked when 9km was constructed and re-awarded for the completion of the remaining 9km. The total cost of the contract is N1.6 billion. He said: “There is also another road construction within Kabo town, which cumulatively stands at 3.9km, at the total cost of over N800m. “This project, like similar projects across so many rural communities in the state, faults unsubstantiated claims by some people that rural communities are abandoned in the infrastructural development of this administration. Similar projects could also be sighted elsewhere.” According to him, experts believe that the project, when completed, would immensely assist the movement of farm produce among the communities, apart from easing the movement of individuals without any hitches. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more