Equities trading at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) ends negatively, on Tuesday, to extend the bearish run into the second trading session of the week. Thus the All Share Index (ASI) further shed 0.11 per cent to stand at 46,843.81 basis points, dragging both the Month-to-Date (MtD) and Year-to-Date (YtD) performance to stand at -1.16 per cent and 9.66 per cent respectively. Investors, therefore, lost N25 billion in the session as market capitalisation closed bearish to stand at N25.2456 trillion, representing a 0.11 per cent decrease as well from the N25.273 trillion it stood at the end of the trading session on Monday. Market breadth also closed bearish with 18 counters in the losers’ chart pitted against 16 counters in the gainers’ chart. On the performance chart, PZ, Japaul Gold, FCMB Group, CHI Plc, and NPF Microfinance Bank were the best-performing stocks. From the rear of the chart International Breweries, Veritas Kapital, FTN Cocoa, Fidelity Bank, and Chams populated the top five losers’ charts. Most sectorial indices closed in the same direction with the ASI, aside NGX Lotus Islam, NGX Industry, NGX Growth and NGX ASEM that closed flat. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Market activity as measured by both volume and value of trades shed weight at the end of the trading session as the daily traded volume stood at 214.328 million units, representing a 40.45 per cent downtick from a volume of 359.890 million units traded in the previous session. The value of traded stocks waned by 31.43 per cent in the session to stand at N1.790 billion as against a value of N2.611 billion recorded in the previous trading session. Chams dominated the volume charts as the top traded stock by volume for the trading session. This is followed by Access Corporation, Transnational Corporation, FBN Holdings, and E-Tranzact to complete the list of the five most traded stocks by volume. With regards to the value of traded stocks, Access Holdings took the lead of the top five performers as well. It is flanked by Zenith Bank, FBN Holdings, Nestle, and lastly Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO). How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Investors lose N25bn as negative sentiment persists at NGX Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Investors lose N25bn as negative sentiment persists at NGX ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details