Osun State government, on Wednesday, allayed the fear of residents of the state who now live in timidity over the consistent movement of perceived strange air surveillance of mini aircraft roving in the sky of Osogbo, the state capital. The government who charged residents not to panic as their security and safety remains its topmost priority explained that, the movement of mini aircraft specially designed for airborne geophysical survey. This is contained in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prince Wole Oyebamiji, to douse the possible fear that may accompany the perceived strange air surveillance. The government noted that it was aware of the yellow-painted helicopter that has been flying round some parts of the State, adding that the exercise was designed for airborne geophysical survey to determine accurate mineral locations in the selected areas with state-of-the-art aeromagnetic mechanisms. The statement, Recall that the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel had few days ago, through its Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) Project, announced its readiness to embark on a 16 weeks sensitisation campaign in 19 states of the federation. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE It listed the affected States as; Osun, Ondo, Oyo, Ogun, Ekiti, Kwara, Nasarawa, Plateau, Kogi, Cross-River, Akwa-Ibom, Ebonyi, Kaduna, Taraba, Bauchi, Niger, Benue, Enugu and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The State Government further disclosed that the exercise is being conducted across 112 Local Government Areas within the said 19 states which had informed the need for the aircraft to fly at low altitude. The statement implored the residents to continue to go about their lawful activities as adequate environmental safety measures have been put in place with the full collaboration of the necessary security stakeholders to ensure a seamless process in the state. “This exercise embarked upon by the Federal Government is designed to obtain airborne geophysical data which are essential documents of the National Geological Infrastructure, as they provide objective information on the spatial distribution of the geological information and tectonics,” the statement added. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Low altitude aircraft surveillance: Osun govt urges residents not to panic, says security guaranteed Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Low altitude aircraft surveillance: Osun govt urges residents not to panic, says security guaranteed ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details