The President-General of the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), Prince Oluyemisi Adetayo Adeaga has given assurance on the completion of the first phase of the ongoing Olubadan palace project by December 2022. Adeaga made the disclosure when he led Executive members of the CCII on a courtesy visit to the newly installed Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Dr Lekan Balogun at his Alarere residence on Tuesday as part of the activities marking the ongoing Ibadan Week Festival which began on Sunday with Church Service at St. Peter’s Anglican Cathedral, Aremo, Ibadan. The CCII boss disclosed that the ancient city of Ibadanland is one of the recipients of the fund released by the Federal government for palace projects across the Country even though it was very handy. He, therefore, requested for the support of the new Olubadan by sanctioning the committee to be set up by the CCII to monitor the usage of the money just as it generates additional funds not only to complete phase one of the project but to also begin work on the next phase. Olubadan palace is a project that would involve everybody. With our population in Ibadan said to be four million according to the last population census, if just one million people out of the four million are captured as eligible to a thousand Naira each, a billion Naira would be raised and that would do something”. The CCII President-General expressed happiness on the emergence of Dr Balogun as the new Olubadan despite the initial hiccups and the kind of coronation held was unequalled in the history of coronation ceremonies in Ibadanland. He said, “with the way things turned out and the kind of weather experienced on the day of the coronation with a harmless heavy night shower that rounded off the day, we can say with confidence that the morning had already shown how the night would be as the good time to expect under the reign of the new Olubadan.” Insisting that this year’s Ibadan Week Festival would have been an exercise in futility without Olubadan’s presence, Prince Adeaga said everything had fallen in line with the coronation held last Friday just as he disclosed that the members would not go to the venue of the grand-finale on Saturday without assurance that Oba Dr Balogun would be there live and direct. Responding on behalf of Olubadan, Otun Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola thanked the CCII for their commitment and sacrifice for the ancient metropolis, asking them not to relent on every move and effort that would raise the bar of Ibadan socially, economically, culturally and even politically. He described the socio-cultural group as the conscience of the Ibadan, a duty that places on the enormous responsibility for the total well-being of all the residents of the ancient metropolis with a prayer that the Almighty God would always crown their efforts with resounding success. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity