Two officials of the Nigerian Immigration Service who were found to have extorted the entire N8,000 in the hands of a 14-year-old female passenger who was travelling on an airline at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, have been ordered to refund the money while they were also banned from all airports across the country. The extortion was discovered following a series of Tweets by the mother of the girl who disclosed that her daughter, who was travelling alone, was extorted of the entire amount of money and they did not even bother to give her any amount to feed herself. The mother, who gave her name as Ratchet Rayne @Imoteda on her Twitter handle, disclosed in a series of Tweets when the incident happened, adding that she was stunned that the Immigration officials could do such a thing to a 14-year-old child who was travelling alone. According to her Tweet: “My 14-year-old daughter was travelling by herself. Immigration took all her money before they let her go. They took money from a 14-year-old. They didn’t even leave her with one kobo or N1,000 so she can buy food. How wicked. “I am so angry. A child! Why are you stealing money from a child? And you took all of it and didn’t let her call her mother? I am stunned at the wickedness.” However, following the allegation raised by the mother, the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on Friday disclosed that following its investigation, it found out that the allegation was true. It added that the officials involved had been made to refund the money while they had been banned from all airports across the country as their On Duty Cards which make them to have access to the airports have been permanently withdrawn. FAAN, in a statement issued on the incident and posted on its Twitter handle @FAAN_Official on Friday, said the officials were found to have extorted the teenager through the help of the CCTV facility at the airport. According to the statement signed by Faithful Hope-Ivbaze, the acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs of FAAN, with respect to the case and after reviewing the CCTV footages, FAAN was able to identify the culprits. “Consequently, the officers were made to refund the exact amount collected from the passenger. Their On Duty Cards were withdrawn permanently and they have been banned from working in any Nigerian Airports,” part of the statement read. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FAAN gives details  FAAN gives details Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FAAN gives details  FAAN gives details ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team