The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has said that Nigeria’s global competitiveness ranking has improved from the position of 124 out of 140 countries by 2015/2016 to a position of 115 out of 140 countries by 2018/ 2019. Onu made this statement during the opening of the council session of the National Council on Science, Technology and Innovation on Thursday in Abuja. Onu further disclosed that resolutions arrived at the various meetings and many of the policies initiated by the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (FMSTI) and approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) owe a lot to the resolution of the council meetings. Onu added that the National Science, Technology and Innovation Roadmap, 2017-2030, the National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw material and Product Development; the Presidential Executive Order 5, the Methanol fuel policy and leather and leather Products Policy have contributed to improving the global competitiveness ranking of our nation as recorded by the World Economic Forum. The minister reiterated that work is ongoing on new policies which draft copies that will soon be presented to the federal executive council for approval. He said that all policies initiated by the federal ministry of science, technology and innovation have made very significant contributions to national development and contribute to making our economy to be a knowledge-based and innovation-driven economy as against the previous situation where the economy was almost dependent on commodities. Onu further said that during the 2022 Science expo, President Muhammadu Buhari commissioned the science technology TV (STITV) to help in the advocacy. The STI TV he added will bring science, technology and innovation to every home such that all Nigerians will see STI as a way of life. Onu stressed the need for all the states to take full advantage of the council meetings for planning the pathway for the development of their states. Earlier, the governor of Kano, represented by the deputy governor, Dr Yusuf Gawuna, said that for any nation to attain sustainable development it must embrace, deploy and apply STI in an appropriate and efficient manner. He added that since the revolution of science and technology and the industrial revolution, it has been observed that the world is owned by those who know technology and not by those who buy technology. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, Barr. Mohammed Abdullahi also said that Nigeria in her bid to transit from a resource-based to a knowledge-based economy driven by innovation is germane for a competitive economy and attainment of sustainable development. Abdullahi said this at the 20th meeting of the National Council of Science, Technology and Innovation (NCSTI), on Thursday, in Abuja. He said that the ability of Nigeria to compete and prosper depends on the significant development of technological capacities and innovations. In his words; “Nigeria’s effort to improve its global competitiveness will contribute to the well-being and quality of life of people through the production of goods and services.” He further stated that through the policy strategy produced by the Ministry in 2016, tagged “National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria”, the country will help to minimize over-dependence on foreign products. He further said that the strategy for Nigeria’s competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development will undoubtedly help the government to focus and target appropriate items that could be produced in Nigeria. Mohammed charged all stakeholders that the strategic document is recommended to all involved in enhancing Nigeria’s competitiveness in industrial production as a means of reducing our inherent high propensity for consumption of imported raw materials and products. The Minister further said that the country is requesting the National Assembly to make an adequate appropriation of funds for Research, Development and Innovation (RD&1) in order to move the nation technologically. Earlier, the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami represented by the Executive Commissioner for State Holders Management of the Nigerian Communication Commission, Barr Adeleke Adewo, said that global competitiveness through the application of STI is embedded on the strategic pillars of Nigeria’s Digital Economy for strength and strategy. He also called on all stakeholders to work in harmony and focus on finding the underline technological infrastructures which will enhance Nigerian competitiveness through STI. The Commissioner of Sokoto State Ministry for Science Invention and Innovation Technology, Dr Kulu Haruna Abubakar said that Nigeria’s Competitiveness through STI is indeed timely and highly welcome. In addition, she congratulated the two Ministers who have been up and doing in ensuring that Nigeria matches with the developed world in the area of STI. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details