Nigerian entrepreneur and pop culture enthusiast, Joshua Ogharisi, otherwise known as God’s Plan has announced popular fashion outfit, Nike as the official brand designer of his clothing brand GPN. Ogharisi who is the CEO and Creative Director of GP Nation, is about to launch his flagship fashion collection GPN in few weeks time, making it available for Nigerians. God’s plan who made his intentions known to the public in a statement released on his social media handles said that he and his team have spent several months, working on the business idea, carrying out different levels of research on the needs of his target audience before releasing their flagship products. “We have spent several months working on this project, I and my team have worked tirelessly to give Nigerians optimum satisfaction when it comes to our fashion brand and I can assure you that GPN was created just to meet the fashion needs of Nigerians ,”he said. While speaking further, he attributed his decision to his admiration for the company and how they put in efforts to produce twaht could be considered as the best set of clothings, he also added that the recognition they’ve gained over the years by proving to be an efficient and trustworthy fashion outfit further convinced him that they were the best option for the job. “Since I was a young boy, I have admired Nike, and this admiration has never waned for a second. It’s why I don’t hesitate from purchasing their products. Their brand has been an inspiration to me, as they display ingenuity and creativity when it comes to fashion. And I believe that I’m not the only one who shares this love for Nike. Thus, making Nike the official brand designer of GPN is a way of connecting with other people who like the brand and build a community that way, ” he added. According to him, the plan is to make lovers of clothing to have an athletic feel, giving them the opportunity to look their best in different fashion designs. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more