THE insistence of President Muhammadu Buhari on former Nasarawa State governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as his anointed choice for the position of national chairman is facing opposition from other aspirants for the office. Party sources told Nigerian Tribune in confidence that some of the governors are goading the aspirants not to surrender to Senator Adamu. The aggrieved chairmanship aspirants not willing to turn in the towel were locked in a meeting yesterday in Abuja. The meeting, according to sources, was held at the residence of former Benue State governor and aspirant for the office, George Akume. Incidentally, Akume is the Minister of Social Duties in Buhari’s cabinet. President Buhari, at a meeting with the seven aspirants for the position of national chairman on Wednesday night, had urged them to accept his favoured candidate while assuring them that the N20 million paid as nomination forms by each of the aspirants would be refunded by the APC caretaker/extraordinary convention planning committee. At the meeting, he was said to have announced his preference for Senator Adamu as the consensus candidate for the coveted post and affirmed that the consensus option chosen by the party is consistent with the spirit of democracy and the Nigerian constitution. He warned that the APC cannot afford to be divided a few hours to its convention. “Finally all those who have bought forms indicating interest and have been dropped should have their money refunded without delay,” he said. But some of the aspirants who have the support of some of the governors have vowed to demand for free contest at Eagle Square, venue of tomorrow’s convention. President Buhari had a separate meeting with the APC governors where he mentioned his favoured candidate and asked for their imput into the unity list of consensus candidates to be ratified tomorrow. The APC 2014 Constitution (as amended) made provisions for direct, indirect and consensus options for emergence of candidates for party offices. A source close to the meeting held by the aspirants told Nigerian Tribune that they will issue a joint statement at the end of their meeting. Governors who are afraid that the stance of the aspirants could undermine the much-anticipated consensus at the convention, arrived at the venue of the meeting to pacify the aspirants, in order for them to endorse Senator Adamu. Details of the meeting was sketchy as of press time. A serving senator who spoke with Nigerian Tribune, however, dismissed insinuation of gang-up against Senator Adamu. He told Nigerian Tribune that President Buhari made an appeal to them at a meeting and they have all agreed to support Senator Adamu. “Except two or three among them, others have moved on. Just wait till Saturday; the leading aspirants will be called to speak at the convention. There is nothing like gang-up,” the serving senator said. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday, offered his support for consensus arrangement. He said he was confident that tomorrow’s exercise would be seamless. Speaking after a meeting with the APC caretaker/extraordinary convention planning committee, he commended the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led committee for the preparation. He said: “We have come to show solidarity with the leadership and membership of the caretaker convention planning committee. They have done so well over the years and this is two days away from the convention. “The Senate APC caucus are happy with the way they have been running our party for the past two years. They have done so well and deserve our continuous support for their standout commitment, dedication and loyalty. “We as a party feel that this is the moment that is critical to the existence of APC and Nigeria. We need to get the convention right. We need to have a very successful convention where we will elect our leaders that will run the affairs of this party for the next four years. “Therefore, every hand must be on deck and so what we have done is to say our hands are available to be on deck as well. We are happy that the party received us so well as it has always done. “As I speak, we are trying to achieve consensus all over the states and the zones and by the time we get to the convention ground, I’m sure there will be very few elective offices that will be required to be contested, because we would have achieved consensus,” he said ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details