The company in charge of the construction of the $1.5 billion Lekki Deep seaport, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, has expressed appreciation over the recent visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to the deep seaport in Lagos. Speaking during the visit, the Chief Executive Officer, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, Mr Du Ruogang, expressed profound appreciation of the company to the President for the visit and the immense support the project has received since its inception, stating that the team remains committed to delivering the project as scheduled. Ruogang further assured that the company is working round the clock to complete the construction as scheduled by September to ensure that commercial operations commence by the fourth quarter of 2022. “We are indeed very pleased and grateful to His Excellency, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari for the visit to Lekki Port today. This day will remain a memorable one in the history of this port. We sincerely thank the President and all the dignitaries that accompanied him here today even as we look forward to having them soon for the official commissioning,” he said. Also speaking during the visit, the Managing Director of Lekki Freeport Terminal, the terminal operator for the port, Mr Denrick Moos, assured that the port operation would be a world class and efficient one, leveraging technology in the automation of its processes. Moos commended both the promoters and partners of the project including Tolaram and China Harbour Engineering Company, for their commitment towards the timely delivery of the project ahead of operational readiness.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details