A report by the Cadre Harmonisé (CH) analysis has said that about 19.4 million people including 416,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are expected to be in food crisis or worse between June and August this year. The report said in the first quarter of the year 2022, about 14.4 million people including 385,000 IDPs in 21 states and FCT are in a food crisis or worse through May this year. It was learnt that the CH is a unified tool for consensual analysis of acute food and nutrition insecurity, across 17 Sahel and West African States including Nigeria. The CH analysis facilitated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), World Food Programme (WFP), and other relevant stakeholders, covered 21 states to include; Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Cross-River, Edo, Enugu. Other states include Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Lagos, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara and the FCT. According to the report, key factors and limiting factors that impact the food and nutrition security situation are insecurity, especially in the northeast, inflation rate as evident in soaring food commodity prices, which could be associated with the economic downturn, loss of employment and reduction in household income due to long term-effect of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking during the food security analysis presentation in Abuja on Friday, Representative of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) in Nigeria and to the Economic Community of the West African States (ECOWAS), Mr Fred Kafeero, said there is a growing need for a holistic approach towards national food systems transformation which is essential for the achievement of the 2030 Agenda. Kafeero, who was represented by Professor Salisu Mohammed said, the integration of CH outcomes in the national food systems transformation pathways will significantly contribute to the food systems transformation journey. He called on the government to incorporate CH analysis results in national planning, including the designing and implementation of national food systems transformation action plans. The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr Ernest Umakhihe said, the CH analysis became necessary to enable holistic analysis and understanding of the drivers and limiting factors to food and nutrition insecurity across the country. He said: “We should also not forget the insecurity situation which has continued to threaten Nigeria’s food and nutrition security. Obviòusly, these changes have led to disruptions in food production and distribution systems, resulting in poor consumption patterns among several households especially, in areas challenged by insecurity and disrupted livelihoods. Furthermore, stakeholders at the presentation of the food analysis report recommended that the government and humanitarian agencies should sustain the implementation of life-saving interventions of food assistance and unconditional cash transfers to the vulnerable populations in the affected areas. The stakeholders also called on the government, NGOs, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and private actors to sustain and promote various empowerment programmes geared towards building the resilience of households through the revitalisation of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). “Priority should be given to the vulnerable populations in these analysed states to enable them to get a fresh start-up for their livelihood. There is a need to support vulnerable populations with agricultural production inputs. “Governments should consciously make budgetary provision to support the implementation of CH activities at both the national and state levels,” the stakeholders added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…19 million Nigerians  19 million Nigerians Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…19 million Nigerians  19 million Nigerians ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more