Former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and aspirant for the office of national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Saliu Mustapha, has cautioned delegates that would assemble in Abuja on Saturday to be wary of voting strangers to lead the party. Speculation is rife that Senator Abdullahi Adamu and former Senate President, Ken Nnamani from the erstwhile ruling party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have been pencilled for the office of national chairman and deputy national chairman of the APC. In veiled reference to the duo, Mustapha urged delegates to those who knew the history of the APC from its formative stage as the main opposition party. He said: “According to Mustapha, being an original member of one of the legacy parties, he knows what APC stands for and where it hopes to be in the future. He made the declaration in an interview on Channels TV’s Politics Today on Monday night. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “That’s the more reason I’m optimistic. That’s the more reason why I believe I’m the right choice for the party at this crucial time. One, nobody has the history of the movement the way I do. “Two, I happen to be in the middle age of both demographics whereby the younger ones see me as a resemblance of what they believe in and I’ve been old enough to hang out with the older ones who have tutored me in this journey so far. “Like I said earlier, no one has the history of the movement the way I do. What people fail to understand is that CPC, ACN and ANPP are from the same family. And that’s why we don’t need a stranger at this crucial time to lead the affairs of the party. “We need someone who knows where we are coming from. Somebody who has the energy, the patience, the understanding and somebody who knows where he are going to and somebody who will add value to the whole arrangement.” On what he has to offer as APC chairman, Mustapha who is also the Turaki of Ilorin maintained that he is bringing something different to the table. “I have made it a direct campaign policy if given the opportunity, to set up what is to be known as The Progressive Institute (TPI). This will be the first time in Nigeria that a political party is making sure the party operates like an institution. “I will not shy away from responsibility. I will bring onboard a style of leadership we used in the days of the CPC whereby every week we had a management meeting. We never waited for things to pile up. We were so proactive. Every week we dissect state by state and find out what are the problems there. Not to just wait behind and begin to set up committees,” Mustapha said. He added that internal democracy will be an essential part of the party set up on his watch to ensure that every member has a sense of belonging. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details