The authorities of Owerri Correctional Center, Imo State, has said the two prison officers were killed by gunmen last Wednesday along Umulolo in Okigwe local government area of Imo State. Public Relations Officer of the command, Goodluck Uboegbulem, disclosed this to journalists in Owerri on Thursday. He added that the officers were attacked on their way to buy fuel He said: “Two of our officers were gunned down in a gun battle with some gunmen. They were ambushed along Okigwe/Enugu/Expressway. They were going to get fuel before they were ambushed.” The spokesman of the command said that they were among the men patrolling that Okigwe area for security purposes. He said that two died and others had different degrees of injury. According to him, the axis has been beefed up with a number of security operatives because of the attack. It will be recalled that an eyewitness had said the gunmen used explosive devices to attack the prison officers and their Hilux vehicle which was damaged. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity