The Managing Director of the Bank of Agriculture (BOA), Alwan Hassan, was reportedly among the victims kidnapped by terrorists during the Monday attack on Kaduna bound train. A source close to the BOA boss family, on Tuesday, said Hassan’s line has been switched off since after the attack on Monday evening with no one able to reach him. The source noted that Hassan boarded the evening train going to Kaduna with one of his nieces. “We cannot tell if he has been kidnapped or not but we are worried because we have been unable to reach him since yesterday. “His phone lines have been switched off and no one has contacted the bank or any of his family members,” the source disclosed. It was reported that the terrorists blew up the rail tracks then open fire on the train, injuring many before making their way to the VIP Coach where many passengers were abducted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Bank of Agriculture MD, Hassan, among missing victims of Kaduna train attack Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Bank of Agriculture MD, Hassan, among missing victims of Kaduna train attack ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details