A University of Ibadan lecturer, Dr Biliki Babarinde, has asked a “Grade A’’ Customary Court sitting in NTC Area, Ibadan, Oyo State, to dissolve her 20-year-old marriage to her husband, Prof. Sikiru Adekola. She alleged maltreatment and promiscuity against her estranged spouse. According to the New Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Dr Babarinde who teaches at the university’s Department of Library, Archival and Information Studies, Faculty of Education, told the court that their marriage had broken down irretrievably. She said that the marriage was contracted on March 2, 2002 and had produced three children. The plaintiff urged the court to restrain her husband from harassing, molesting and intimidating her and also to grant her the custody of the three children. She also urged the court to order him to bear the full responsibility for the payment of school fees, books, feeding and medical expenses of the children. Dr Babarinde also urged the court to order Prof. Adekola to pay N100,000 monthly for feeding their children and N120,000, also monthly as their wardrobe allowance. At the proceeding, Prof. Adekola told the court that he was not opposed to the dissolution of their marriage. Prof. Adekola who teaches at the Department of Early Childhood and Educational Foundation, Faculty of Education, also at the University of Ibadan, spoke through his counsel, Mr Yusuf Anikulapo. Anikulapo told the court, however, that he had filed an application challenging the jurisdiction of the court. Objecting to the move, Mr Olufemi Adegboroye, counsel to Dr Babarinde, said Prof. Adekola raised some new points in his counter-affidavit that were not in the originating summons. He told the court that he was just served with the counter-affidavit and required time to respond to it and subsequently asked the court for an adjournment. The court president, Mr R. Gbadamosi, adjourned the case till April 11 for hearing of the preliminary objection. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.