Bandits attacked some communities in Southern Kaduna in the hours of last Sunday. Findings gathered that the armed bandits stormed the communities in six hilux vehicles and motorcycles. “They began to move in commando style and started unleashing terror on the innocent citizens especially those sighted,” said a source. A resident, Matthew Musa revealed that “today (Monday) we counted 23 corpses while over 70 houses were burnt.” Tribune Online reports that some angry youths protested the killings, blocked roads and set a bus ablaze. It was also gathered that a stray bullet allegedly killed one of the protesters. To this effect, the Kaduna state government imposed a 24-hour curfew on Kaura, Jama’a local government to avert the outbreak of violence. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In a statement issued by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, on Monday, the government said “following advice from security agencies, the Kaduna State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Jema’a and Kaura local government areas of the state with immediate effect. “This is to assist the security agencies to stabilise the situation in the areas, save lives and property and enable the restoration of law and order.” The statement said that security agencies have full authorisation to enforce the curfew. “Government appeals to all residents of Jema’a and Kaura local government areas to cooperate with the security agencies in the urgent task of restoring peace and upholding law and order. “Government condemns the violence and all acts of lawlessness that have occurred in the area. Further updates will be issued as necessary,” the statement declared. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details