There was some commotion on Thursday at the inauguration of Professor Chukwuma Soludo as the governor of Anambra State when wife of outgoing Governor Willie Obiano, Ebelechukwu, allegedly slapped Mrs Bianca Ojukwu at the event. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who was at the scene of the event reported that the incident occurred immediately after Soludo took his oath of office. NAN reported that dignitaries including the outgoing governor were already seated when Mrs Obiano stepped in and moved to the front row where the widow of Dim Odumegwu Ojukwu was seated and allegwdly slapped her. The action drew the attention of security agents and some personalities who reportedly pulled Mrs Obiano off the hold of Bianca who was visibly shocked at the action. Mrs Obiano was later taken away and shortly afterwards, her husband left the venue of the event. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Commotion as Obiano’s wife allegedly slaps Bianca Ojukwu at Soludo’s inauguration  Commotion as Obiano’s wife allegedly slaps Bianca Ojukwu at Soludo’s inauguration  Commotion as Obiano’s wife allegedly slaps Bianca Ojukwu at Soludo’s inauguration ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity