Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture,  Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf will on Wednesday, March 30, 2022, lead some members of the State House of Assembly, Executive Council Members, Ministry officials and some Tourism Stakeholders on a three-day tour of the various tourism sites across the 5 Divisions of the State. The Tour which is in response to call by different Tourism stakeholders to further expose the Tourism Assets of the State to both local and international tourists, will start from Ikeja Division and end at Ikorodu Division. According to the itinerary of the Tour released by the Commissioner, the Familiarisation Tour is planned to start from Ndubuisi Kanu Park at Alausa, through the African Shrine, to Ikeja and Oshodi Bus Terminals all within Ikeja Division of the State, after which the Team will connect the Lagos Division of the State at the City Mall through John Randle Centre, Onikan to Freedom Park and Glover Memorial Hall, Lagos. The Commissioner stated that the Team will depart for Badagry from the Falomo Jetty, exploring the waterways to spend a night in Badagry and afterwards visit the Slave Market, Point of No Return and some other Tourism sites within Badagry on Thursday morning. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She added that “From Badagry, the Team will return to Eti-Osa with a visit to the world famous Nike Art Gallery and Lekki Conservation Centre before heading to Epe to spend another night. The Epe Fish Market and Sungbo Eredo will be part of the tourism attractions that would also be visited before going to the Palace of the Ayangburen of Ikorodu which will be the final destination for the 3-day tour. Akinbile-Yussuf noted that at each of the Division, there will be engagement with tourism Stakeholders on how to further harness the various tourism potentials domiciled in the various Divisions for economic growth and for the benefits of the residents as a whole. “At Ikeja, the stakeholders engagement will be at the African Shrine where an Entertainment guru, Edi Lawani will speak on ‘Reinforcing Lagos as the Entertainment Capital of Africa while Mr Theo Lawson will Speak on ‘The Positioning of Lagos as the Arts and Culture Centre of Africa’, at Freedom Park, Lagos.” For the stakeholders engagement in Epe, the Honourable Commissioner informed that the CEO of Wakanow Mr Bayo Adedeji will address participants on ‘Exploiting the Aquatic Blessings of Lagos for Tourism Growth’ at Lagos Theatre, Epe while for Badagry Division, a top-rated Tour Guide, Anago Osho will speak to stakeholders on ‘Reinventing Lagos as the Prime Destination for the African Diaspora’. It should be noted that this Familiarisation Tour across the 5 Divisions of Lagos was part of the resolutions reached from the numerous Stakeholders meetings held in the past two years by the Ministry of Tourism Arts and Culture which also led to the Launch of the Tourism Masterplan. Lagos, apart from being the first state to launch a Tourism Masterplan in the entire country, the State Government has ensured the implementation of different aspects of the Masterplan including the Community Based Tourism initiative which is now operational in some pilot Local Government Areas. This Tour will afford the Ministry to accelerate conversation with relevant individuals and institutions for partnership opportunities in implementing the tourism masterplan and creating an enabling environment for investors in line with the cardinal objectives and strategic developmental vision of Mr Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu’s THEMES Agenda  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details