As the clock ticks and the time counts down, all eyes are on who takes over the number one seat of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Candidates from different parts of the country in their various parties are declaring their intentions and some others are still consulting with stakeholders with their parties, tribe, and ethnic groups. At the moment, it seems all groups and age brackets are duly represented with individuals who have registered their interest for the mighty seat in Aso Rock. The youths and women are not left out and are a clear indication that more would come out. Realistically, whoever would be taking over that seat is coming at a very challenging time, almost with no time to rest for pleasure. Insecurity, economic instability, banditry, almighty corruption, inflation, fuel scarcity, and subsidy issues are few of the trials the country is faced with. An adage says a tree cannot make a forest. Though there would be the big lion controlling everything, the lion still needs the elephant, giraffe, tiger, and every other entity of the animal kingdom. No matter how strong and capable the president could be, the issues are more for just an individual to handle. Capable hands are needed in various capacities, elective and by appointment. It is sad that citizens only focus and hold responsible the president while they abandon the 109 senators, 360 representatives, about 360 members of state assemblies, about 774 local government chairmen, with Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) in states like Lagos, and over 5,000 councilor seats across the federation. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The allocations to these seats are enough to develop the constituency and district they represent. For instance, the monthly salary of a senator and member of the House of Representatives is about 1.5 million and 1.3 million naira respectively with 13 million and 8 million naira quarterly office-running costs, covering travel, medical, newspaper, vehicle, office equipment, and other allowances. The state and local governments get their monthly allocation directly from the federal coffer. Accountability should not be for only the president and governors but all political office holders across board. As the 2023 election approaches, proper and critical assessment of representatives at the national and state assemblies must take place. Some might be on their first term, some second, and others more than three terms. This is a good parameter to evaluate. A representative that is not performing to expectation with the term used in the office should be shown the way to the door. Though experience counts, spending such a long time in office without a worthwhile achievement is just a waste of time. Whoever will be spending a long time in office as a legislature must have what can be related with in terms of bills, projects, and other duties and not just sit in office only to receive the monthly salary. It is high time we held our representatives to account. We might wish to retain the working ones and replace the dormant representatives and not only focus only on who becomes the president.  Waheed Shotonwa, shotonwa.waheed@gmail.com ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.