The Federal Competition & Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) receives over 100 complaints daily from Nigerians. This was disclosed at the training of over 120 members of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and civil society groups across the nation to better understand the rights of the consumer. Speaking at the training in Abuja, the Executive Vice Chairman of FCCPC, Babatunde Irukera said the commission was working hard to create consumer rights awareness as a means of reducing trader, customer conflict. According to him, “the purpose of this programme is to enlighten people and CPG s(consumer protection groups) who are the NGOs. “Let me use this opportunity to thank you for the role you have been playing in the consumer education and enlightenment of our people.” Represented by Dr Alihu Mohammed, Director of Administration, FCCPC, Irukera stated that “We have to work together with you. We have to collaborate with each other to see that our dear consumers are not cheated. “We are organising programmes like this so that you will go back to your various destinations and enlighten Nigerians out there. This is the essence of our being here”. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He explained that once the consumer is enlightened, “nobody will cheat anybody. If what is said here is taken out there for enlightenment, Nigeria will be a better place. “Today, we receive not less than 100 complaints in a day. This is all because Nigerian consumers are becoming enlightened day after day.” On his part, the Commissioner for Operations with FCCPC, Dr Abdullahi Adamu called on the trainees to spread consumer rights awareness. Represented by Mrs Joy Lekauwa, Head, Consumer Education, Adamu told the NGO members that “you are here to get all necessary information that will help you to do this voluntary work better than you were doing before. “We want to come to that point where everybody that is a consumer in Nigeria will know his or her rights, and the government can definitely not do it alone without complementary efforts from the civil society, and so you are very important and that’s why you are here.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details