For three years, Owate Fatima Adesola, a federal civil servant with the National Population Commission and her family have been living with the burden of medical fees to sustain her life while trying to raise funds for a renal transplant. Fatima lived a normal life devoid of any major health crisis until she was taken to the Gbagada General Hospital in 2020. Fatima was taken to the hospital based on complaints of lethargy, vomiting and irrational talk. And according to a medical report signed by Dr. A.A. Busari, a consultant nephrologist, clinical, biochemical and radiological assessment revealed that she is suffering from End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) which is secondary to to Polycystic Kidney Disease. As a result, since 2020, she has been on a twice a week maintenance of Haemodialysis and other nephrology care and would eventually need renal transplant Her life has since taken a turn from what she expected; now, she undergoes haemodialysis twice or thrice weekly and has had several near death experiences due to medical complications from the disease. Now, she’s mostly tired and ineffective, unable to carry out any productive activity. The solution to Fatima’s medical challenge is a kidney transplant; this would give her a chance to live a normal and healthy life. According to her daughter, Fatima’s national health insurance from the government as a federal worker doesn’t cover treatment costs associated with kidney disease. “My family has been dealing with this privately all the while, by paying for dialysis and medications and now we have basically lost everything. My mom has made huge sacrifices for my sibling and I, so watching her experience this great discomfort has been very devastating for us,” she said. For Fatima to have a renal transplant the sum of N15million is required and out of this, the family has been able to raise N8m from personal funds and the support of family, friends and colleagues. But the family still needs help. “We still need support to raise the remaining 7m,” the daughter said. They are begging Nigerians to come to their aid and save the life of their mother. Financial assistance for Fatima can be sent to her bank account: Fatima .O Adesola, Guaranty Trust Bank 0659806591 She can be reached on mobile numbers: 07081543116, 08189438037  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity