THE Academic Staff Union of Universities has extended its one-month warning strike by eight weeks. National Executive Council (NEC) of the Union announced this via its official Twitter handle @ASUUNGN a while ago. The ASUU NEC meeting is ongoing in Abuja. “ASUU extends the strike action by 8 weeks. Stay tuned for more details. #ASUU #ASUUstrike,” the Union tweeted. The one-month warning strike embarked upon by ASUU on February 14, ended today. The strike was to protest the non-implementation of the 2009 Agreement and other Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) reached by the Federal Government with the Union. ASUU President, Professor Emmanuel Osodeke, contacted on the telephone, could not confirm the extension of the warning but simply said “we are still in the meeting. I will get back to you”. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ASUU extends strike by 8 weeks  ASUU extends strike by 8 weeks  ASUU extends strike by 8 weeks  ASUU extends strike by 8 weeks ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more