The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has begun mass demolition of illegal structures behind the old Federal Secretariat at Area I in Abuja. The Administration had in February 2022 issued a demolition notice to owners of the structures with a reminder on March 1 to leave the place. Speaking to journalists after the exercise, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the minister, Ikaro Attah, said the rate of shanties in the area was worrisome and need serious cleanup. He regretted that the secretariat that houses the Ministers of Interior, Trade and Investment have been taken over by the illegal structures which constituted security threat to the nation’s capital. Attah explained that the demolition followed a series of complaints received about the area from security agencies and strategic persons, recently. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “It is a lot worrisome, we have been receiving series of complaints from security agencies and strategic persons, so as part of our efforts to clean the federal capital of shanties we have to start the pulling down of the illegal structures. “The FCT Administration will not allow shanties to take over ministers of Interior and that of Trade and Investment with other key ministries. “It would have been done since last year but because of the wet season we had to leave it till now, dry season, even now is not easy but we have to do it. We warned them time without number to vacate the place.” On claims by owners of the illegal structures that they were Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from Borno State, Attah said the IDPs were few in numbers at the fringes of the Dunamis church and near the main road. However, senator Ali Ndume who represents Borno South in National Assembly visited the area during the exercise and called for profiling of the IDPs. Ndume said: “we are all Nigerians, we must obey rules and regulations, there is nothing wrong demolishing structures serving as security threat to offices belonging to senior government officials, therefore let all of you that know that you are IDPs write down your names for proper documentation,” he said. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FCTA demolishes illegal structures Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa FCTA demolishes illegal structures ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.