Lagos State Real Estate Regulatory Authority (LASRERA), has declared its readiness to commence the enforcement of its newly signed law aimed at holding property developers, individuals and organisations in real estate business accountable, especially those with the intentions to defraud accommodation seekers across the state. The Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Housing, Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka, made this declaration during a courtesy visit to her office by Female Lawyers in Real Estate Practice (FELIREP), in Alausa, Ikeja. She cited the instance of some property developers, who are in the habit of collecting money from potential clients above the available units of property, Benson-Awoyinka maintained that such individuals or organisations must be made to face the law in order to serve as deterrent to others with similar intentions. The special adviser also disclosed that the state government is coming up with a policy that will encourage property developers to open an Escrow Bank Account with financial institutions. Explaining the concept of Escrow banking of funds, she said it  is  meant to promote financial transparency and protection of citizens in transactions. While encouraging Lagos residents to always engage lawyers at every stage of real estate transactions so as not to fall victims of illegal swindlers in the sector, Benson-Awoyinka added that the legal practitioners are always ready to guide prospective property buyers on how to avoid some pitfalls. The special adviser advised practitioners on the need to understand the value of LASRERA Law, especially the aspect of documentation of real estate transactions for ease of doing business in terms of sales/purchases of properties for identification of ownership. She encouraged her learned professionals (Female Lawyers in Real Estate Practice, FELIREP) to see real estate transactions beyond selling, buying or leasing of properties or cut and paste of documents, Stressing that the real estate value chain is huge and yet untapped. Earlier, the Founder, Female Lawyers in Real Estate Practice, Peace Anomneze, explained that the essence of group is to create awareness about female lawyers that are in real estate for mentorship purposes and also for advocacy on professionalism in carrying out real estate transactions in the state. Stating examples of lawyers in other sectors like marine, insurance, among others, Anomneze promised that the body of FELIREP will invest in mentorship programme for young female lawyers and individuals on how to understand the dynamics of the real estate markets in the state. She sought for more cooperation from the State Government in the area of  land documentation to ensure that the processing period is further reduced. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.