Members of the National  Association of Women in Colleges of Education, (WICE) South- West Zone, have raised their voices against parental negligence, which they attributed to the unhealthy sexual violence and other social vices pervading  Nigeria as a nation in this 21st century. The association came up with this position at its 6th South- West Biennial Conference/workshop, based on the theme; Sexual violence and parental negligence in the 21st century: A Challenge to National Growth and Development, held at the Federal College of Education (Special), Oyo, recently. The association expressed its fear that the growth and development of a nation would remain elusive in a society where parental negligence is prevalent, while lives and property in such a  society would no longer be guaranteed. According to the Association, the increasing rate of violence, drug abuse and other related vices incidence perpetrated by Nigerian youths in the country of recent has called for the urgent need for Nigerian parents to tend their toddlers in order to save the future of this country and Africa in general. Speaking at the event, the Zonal Coordinator of the Association, Dr Roseline Ololade asserted that parental responsibility of a  child’s moral education upbringing is key to the national development process, saying that no society can afford untrained and wayward children in nation-building process. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to her, the future of Nigeria is at stake with the increasing rate of bad boys and girls in the society, expressing worry that  Nigeria would begin to experience national disasters if the leadership of this nation falls into their hands. She said: “It is high time parents took up their responsibility in the moral training of their children to guide them against public sexual harassment and rescind from all forms of vices for the interest of the family and the nation in general. In this regard, it is of necessity for tertiary institutions in the country to give female students accommodation priority, as lecturers remain the loco parentis to all the students, especially the female counterparts,”. Speaking in the same vein, the  Association chairperson, Federal College of Education, Special, Oyo, Chapter, Dr Mrs  Anthonia  Ajobiewe and  Zonal Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dr Mrs  Adekemi Fadun asserted that it has become inevitable for Nigerian women to give adequate attention to moral upbringing of their children. According to them, a good family gives birth to a good society and a good nation, stressing that parental responsibility to inculcate discipline and moral education and fear of God into the lives of children to become good citizens in the society is crucial to national development. Similarly,  The keynote presenter on the occasion, the Rector, Federal School of surveying, Oyo,  Dr Dupe Olayinka- Dosumu and the lead paper presenter, Dr Olugbenro Adeniyi, in their presentations, agreed in principle that child’s moral education negligence is hazardous to life and property as well as economic development of any nation. According to them,  Nigeria is under the siege of youth violence capable of paralyzing the nation’s economy if nothing is done to curtail them adequately. Dr Dupe stated that the youth social problem solutions lie on the table of everybody in the society. “Everybody must be vigilant; the community, the religious institutions and government have specific roles to play to curb the increasing social youth menace in the country.  There must be functional legislation against child abuse in the country.  All the stakeholders in child upbringing, the government, community and parents must be functional to effectively curb the menace. Dr Adeniyi condemned the negative ways Nigerian youths surf the internet. According to her, whatsoever happens to a child will affect society. If the youths are not properly groomed in terms of moral education, the whole nation will be in jeopardy. She said: “The training of a child is not only for economic motive, but also to become responsible to the society.  Youths are future leaders of any society. In this light,  there should be a platform for youth moral and discipline education and skill development process. Concerted efforts must be made to stem the tide of negativities beginning from homes. Moreover,  tertiary institutions’ curriculum should be made functional for self-employment purposes. In addition, the  Local Organising Committee Chairperson of the conference,  Dr. (Mrs)  Mopelola Akin-Taylor, described the theme of the conference as timely and necessary to deliberate upon and find solutions to safe Nigeria from collapsing “.  Parenting is a major aspect of life. If the home is okay, every other place will be okay. The good, bad and ugly of a child’s lifestyle starts from the home. To safe Nigeria from being destroyed, we must start from home,” she warned.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more