Former Nigerian Shippers’ Council Executive Secretary, Mr Hassan Bello, has lamented that the transportation management in the country is depleting. Bello made this exclusively known to Tribune Online while giving his penny on the state of the Nigerian Institute of Transportation Technology (NITT), Zaria, on Sunday. Former NSC Boss stated that NITT is supposed to be training people to cure the deficit in transport management, adding that it is a specialised thing. He, therefore, urged the Federal Government to fill the gap and encourage the Nigerian Institute of Transportation Technology (NITT). Bello said that government should explore the transformation process of the Institute with its recent structured infrastructural financing and also ease of doing business. Hassan added that they should look at the Institute and ensure that sound transport managers are in all the agencies and designed courses. “Nigeria is depleting in transport management. We need to fill the gap and the Nigerian Institute of Transportation Technology should be encouraged. “NITT is supposed to be training people to cure the deficit in transport management as it is a specialized thing. “I, therefore, urged the Federal Government to fill the gap and encourage the Nigerian Institute of Transportation Technology (NITT). “Government should explore the transformation process of the Institute with its recent structured infrastructural financing and also ease of doing business. “They should look at the Institute and ensure that sound transport managers are in all the agencies and designed courses,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Nigeria is depleting in transport management ― Former NSC Boss ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team