Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo has charged the State Sports Commission Board to develop 10,000 athletes in different fields of sports in the next five years. Governor Obaseki gave the charge while inaugurating the Yusuf Alli led Sports Commission in Benin. He admonished the Commission to pursue policies that would ensure that Edo dominated the country in the development and training of athletes. “Edo is synonymous with sports, we owe what we met on the ground to the next generation. We have to catch them young, we have to rethink sports with all resources we have. “We have to catch them in schools and those outside school. Success to me will be when we have more than ten thousand Edo people, young men and women, who are so good in sports and can find opportunities locally, nationally and globally. “People need to prepare for the global market, why can’t we start now? We just have to catch them young whether it is in swimming, tennis, basketball, table tennis, handball or football. “We should be able to say in five years’ time, we have trained between ten thousand to twenty thousand, and if one thousand of those become global stars, see what that would do for us,” he stated. Obaseki also tasked the sports Commission Board to tap into funding from the private sector to develop infrastructure and drive sporting activities. He called for total reforms and transparency in the administration of sports associations. According to him, “Private capital is fundamentally different from the way government capital behaves. “There is a high level of transparency because anybody who puts money down wants to see through where that money is going to and how that money is being spent. “This is because, if they don’t see it, you can’t attract more. So, we can’t run the associations the way we used to. “Sports is sports, politics is politics, let’s separate them. Sport is professional, let’s bring that level of professionalism to it. “Edo today is the number one cricket team in Nigeria through private sector spending. I want to see the same in swimming, in gymnastics, in volleyball and Handball. “I want to walk around neighbourhoods and see the availability of courts; courts for different sports, and I believe there are private people ready to make that investment if we give them a clear direction on how to come in. The Edo State Sports Commission has Yusuf Alli, a one-time captain team Nigeria and National Long Jump record holder as Chairman and Sabina Chikere as Permanent Secretary. Others include Chairman, Stealing Bank, Asiun Ighodalo, Chairman, Sterling Bank; Uyi Akpata, President Cricket Federation of Nigeria; and former Lagos and Edo Football Association chairman, Frank Illaboya. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more