The Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) has disclosed that Lagos, Kano and Niger are the top three high demand states for daily loading of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) from depots out of 11 states within the same category. This is to say that the three states had between March 7 and 20, 2022 received the highest volume of PMS from the 71.03million litres average national daily evacuation for the period. Others within the category are; Zamfara, Oyo, Ogun, Adamawa, Delta, Edo, Kaduna and Anambra. Between the period, data shared by the Company, whose source was attributed to the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) showed that Lagos, Kano and Niger States received 12.16, 6.43 and 4.83million litres/day respectively. It said the high demand states in total had 64 per cent of the total PMS volume loaded for different destinations across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, (FCT). Meanwhile, for the 14 Medium Demand States, Rivers, Enugu Plateau and the FCT topped with PMS volume of 28.6, 28.23,25.7,24.1 million litres of the total PMS volume loaded within the period. Others within the Medium Demand States are; Benue, Kwara, Akwa-Ibom, Imo, Abia, Ondo, Gombe, Osun, Cross River and Borno. Of the total PMS volume loaded for different destinations across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, (FCT), 29 per cent went to the Medium Demand States while seven per cent went to the remaining 12 Low Demand States.The 12 Low Demand States are; Kogi, Taraba, Kebbi, Ekiti, Sokoto, Bayelsa, Ebony, Kaduna, Yobe, Nasarawa, Bauchi and Jigawa. The country has in the last couple of weeks being faced with fuel scarcity and very recently price increase which has, in turn, caused untold hardship on Nigerians and businesses. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Fuel scarcity: Lagos, Kano, Niger top high demand states for PMS loading Fuel scarcity: Lagos, Kano, Niger top high demand states for PMS loading ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details