In furtherance to its determination to ensure productive and qualitative participation in the 2023 general elections for the betterment of Nigerian working people, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), has resolved to form a formidable alliance with the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) for onward achievement of their desired success. TUC, in a communique after its recently held political roundtable conference in Abuja, enumerated some important steps the Organised Labour is determined to take in order to achieve their set objectives. Signed by its President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, the resolutions are; “That there is the need for a platform that has the dual role of political education and electoral participation. There is the need to replicate the roundtable, organise town hall meetings and advocacy programmes on active political participation of Nigerian workers and citizens in the states and local governments of the federation. “All Nigerian workers and eligible citizens yet to obtain their permanent voter cards should do so without further delay. Hence, advocacy will be stepped up in this regards. There is the need to identify and canvass eligible voters who have voter’s apathy and discourage such attitude through groundswell political sensitisation across the country. The Congress will utilise the media, especially social media, campaign flyers, posters and other devices in its political education programmes. “That there is the need to come up with a common manifesto, agenda and programme that would be used to canvass positions with the Nigerian people. Organised labour needs to have an agenda to mobilise people to save the country from it being collapsed through a platform of unity to address issues and to further ensure better governance beyond the 2023 election and discuss what is achievable for the 2023 general election.” The Congress in its observation of the political roundtable conversations noted that, “Nigerian workers have a duty and an obligation to intervene in the political process in Nigeria. To this end, workers have to go beyond their comfort zone which is the economic struggle and get organised as a class and engage the political space in Nigeria. In view of this position, the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Nigeria Labour Congress, their affiliates and workers in the informal sector and workers in training must become organised to get involved in politics in Nigeria.” “That there are various moments in Nigeria and that the 2023 elections is one of such moments. To this end, workers are called upon to ensure that workers have a deliberate intervention in the 2023 elections. However, it was also noted that the organising efforts have to be built beyond 2023 irrespective of the outcomes. “That there are options before the labour movement which include but are not restricted to the following; establishing and building an independent working class party. To form an electoral alliance with pro-labour political parties. The third and final option is one that will be consistent with the centrality of class struggle, socialist ideology and thorough-going socialist transformation and will be movement-based. The movement strategy will fully integrate and unite ‘organised labour’ with the entire labour movement and all its allies. “That there is a need to establish a clear cut criterion to determine who should be part of the movement, alliance, process and engagement. That there is the urgent need to revive political education among workers at all levels and to ensure that there are proper organisations of workers at the grassroots level. That there is a need to encourage the active participation of youths and women in the movement and the decision making process. That the labour movement has to build international solidarity with workers across the globe. This is premised on the need to guarantee decent jobs and social justice for the global working class. “It was observed that the electioneering process in Nigeria has come a long way in Nigeria since 1999 till date, especially with the signing into law of the Electoral Act, 2022. However, the sanctity of the electoral process cannot be left to the election management bodies alone. It was observed that organised labour has a duty to unify the Nigeria people irrespective of ethnicity and religion. Labour has a duty to mobilise Nigerians along class lines and encourage a pan-Nigerian movement that promotes a united and prosperous Nigeria.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details