A United Kingdom-based lawyer and philanthropist, Yemi Ayodele Ayeni (YAA) has declared to contest for the 2023 House of Representatives seat for Ekiti North Federal constituency 1 comprising Ikole and Oye local government areas. Ayeni, who was welcomed to the constituency by a mammoth crowd of supporters and admirers said he would contest for the seat under the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The aspirant who hails from Oye-Ekiti was received by his well-wishers visited Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju for his royal blessings. He equally visited the Ifaki-Ekiti residence of the governorship candidate of the SDP for the June 18 poll and former governor, Chief Segun Oni. Oba Ademolaju commended the aspirant for his untiring philanthropist gestures over the years for the people, saying his ambition to represent the constituency would be supported by all and sundry. The former chairman of the state council of traditional rulers maintained that with his achievements and contributions to the society and the underprivileged as a lawyer, he would not disappoint his constituents when elected in 2023. The former governor described the international lawyer as an accomplished legal personality who would be pivotal and instrumental to the development of youths and women when elected into the green chamber. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Oni while assuring him that the party would provide a level playing field for all aspirants, revealed that the SDP would be victorious during the June 18 poll. According to him, “Yemi Ayodele Ayeni is my good brother and friend of Segun Oni’s family. Let me assure you guys that there would be a level playing grand for all aspirants. Our own in SDP will be different from those who became House of Representatives candidates through text messages. “Without mincing words, SDP will form the next government of Ekiti State. I urge all residents of Ekiti State who are yet to register or collect their PVCs to go and do so because this is another opportunity for us to choose who should rule the state for the next four years.” Responding, Ayeni who commended the people for the show of love and commitment for his aspiration promised not to fail them when elected in 2023. “Appreciation to my people that came out to welcome me. It was a surprise welcome devoid of my knowledge. When the news filtered to me, I decided to pay an uninformed courtesy visit to HE Asiwaju Segun Oni before proceeding to the palace of His Royal Majesty, Oba Ademolaju Adugbole, the Oloye of Oye Ekiti for royal blessings. “Surprisingly, arrangement for well-wishers and fans throughout the constituency was made by people. I thank you all for honouring me this way,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity