Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, has stated that Deltans need someone with experience like him to govern the state come 2023. He stated this at the stakeholders’ meeting of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Delta South Senatorial District, which held on Sunday, at Peemos Place, Warri, Delta State. Oborevwori, who declared his intention to run for the forthcoming governorship election under the PDP, said what would count for him were his local content experience in governance, the people and the state. He explained that Deltans need a home-based governor who understands the terrain of the state and can continue with the peace that the present PDP administration has established across the state. The speaker added that having worked closely with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for almost five years, he has learnt the skills of governance and believed he has the capacity to lead the people of the state for more developmental strides. “To take over from someone who is very experienced, you have to be streetwise to take over. The local experience and content is what is counting for me. I know your pains, your pain is my pain. “There’s peace in this state because the governor understands the terrain and the people. So you must elect somebody that understands the terrain properly. If I can manage 28 constituencies for five years, I can manage this state,” he reiterated. The PDP governorhip aspirant, who appreciated the stakeholders for supporting Governor Okowa to perform in office, pleaded with them to give him maximum support ahead of the PDP primaries. “This can only be possible with your collective efforts; it’s not something one can do alone. You people know me very well, I am home-based, proper Warri man. This is where I lived all my life, you know me very well I am a local content man and your pain is my pain. “The man standing before you is ready to learn and to listen to you more. We will do more and achieve more. “More meaningful development, opportunity for all, enhanced peace and security, economic, human infrastructural development, fairness and equity. It’s better to put someone you know,” he pleaded. Meanwhile, the convener of the PDP Delta South Stakeholders’ meeting, Mr. Mike Loyibo and some of the chairmen present, have declared their support for Oborevwori with a call on all to stand and support him come 2023. Present at the stakeholders’ meeting were representatives of the eight local government areas of the district namely: Patani, Burutu, Warri North, Warri South, Warri South-West, Isoko North and Isoko South, and Bomadi under Delta South Senatorial District. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details