Youths under the auspices of Isoko Development Union (IDU), (Youth Wing), on Monday, barricaded the busy Emevor-Iyede-Ughelli Asaba Expressway over alleged marginalisation by the Delta State government and multinational oil companies. The Monday morning  protest caused heavy gridlock for several hours in the ever busy expressway, disrupting economic and official activities as travellers were stranded while commuters made diversions through other routes. The protesters, in their number, armed themselves with placards with different inscriptions such as “Okowa failed to meet with Isoko Youths,” “We demand the release of the 10 million Social Security Fund Isoko Youths,” and “Isoko Youths Tell Okowa to Respect Isoko Tradition,” among others. A heavy duty truck was also used to block the highway to restrict vehicular movement to and from Ughelli and Asaba axis. President of the IDU Youth wing, Comrade Obokpaino Fidelis, who led the protest, stressed that the protest was as a result of the marginalisation of the youth body by the Delta State government and the multinationals oil companies operating in Isoko land. “Isoko Development Union, Youths Wing, created 16 months ago, was saddled with the responsibilities of handling all youths activities in Isoko nation. “But since its creation till now, the state government has resolved not to give IDU Youth Wing attention for interaction. “We are being denied of our Corporate Social Responsibilities by the multinationals oil companies operating in Isoko land. “And whenever we approached the Oil Companies for dialogue, they refused granting us audience. “Even the Commissioner of Police, the Army and DSS, including the state government, they all denied having audience with us which is the major reason why we barricaded the road today in a peaceful protest over the marginalisation. “We the Isoko youths are being marginalised of the 10 million naira Social Security Fund which the State Government is giving to other ethnic nationalities across the state. “Also, we are being marginalised of the Social Corporate Responsibilities which all Oil Companies exploring crude oil in Isoko land suppose to perform for our youths, women and men. “That’s why we are here to express our displeasure that enough is enough. “We are demanding an interactive session with the state government to present our demands to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and multinationals oil companies operating in Isoko land.” Other executive members of the Isoko youths, Comrade David Odafe Igbe and Isoje Esther, both
Secretary-General and Women Leader of IDU Youth Wing corroborated the claim of the president. Meanwhile, responding to the aggrieved protesters, the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, who ran into the protesters on his way to Asaba, appealed for calm, promising to present their demands to the state governor. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details