Vice president Yemi Osinbajo has reportedly apprised President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to contest the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for next year’s election. According to the Daily Trust report Monday, which quoted sources, Osinbajo approached the president to inform him of his desire to inherit his position at the end of the tenure in May next year. The newspaper reported: “Certainly, VP Osinbajo has told the president that he wants to succeed him,” one of our sources said. “The vice president had first consulted some prominent Nigerians who encouraged him to vie for the presidency and they also encouraged him to tell the president himself. “They told him not to allow a third party to tell the president so that the ambition will not be misconstrued,” he said. The report quoted another source who revealed that Buhari did not express surprise when the vice president broached the topic to him. “Buhari smiled in his usual characteristic manner…he listened to the VP carefully and while responding, he gave him the green light and wished him well without giving him any commitment or assurance of supporting him ahead of other contenders. “He blessed the intention just the way he blessed Tinubu when he visited him in the Villa and unveiled his plan to vie for the presidency. “And I think the president is being careful. Remember what he said while granting an interview to national television,” the report quoted the source. The vice president has been coy about his ambition even though a number of support groups have since been openly canvassing for his candidacy. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Osinbajo informs Buhari about his presidential ambition  Osinbajo informs Buhari about his presidential ambition  Osinbajo informs Buhari about his presidential ambition Osinbajo informs Buhari about his presidential ambition ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more