Imo State Commissioner for Finance, Dr Doris Anite, has completely dismissed the rumour of alleged sex scandal at the State Internal Revenue Service (IIRS) describing it as frivolous and the handiwork of a failed opposition. The Commissioner said this while reacting to the allegations making the rounds in some media platforms, called on Imo people to jettison unfounded rumours and unproven allegations. Anite while pledging her commitment to the overall welfare of all agencies and parastatals under her ministry, said that a committee had been set up to look into the allegation with a view to ascertaining its veracity or otherwise. She assured staff of the IIRS of Government’s commitment to the rule of law and its zero tolerance for harassment of any kind. She assured that anyone found culpable in the findings of the committee would be made to face the full weight of the law while urging Imo people to keep faith with the Gov. Hope Uzodimma-led Government of Imo state. She however called on members of the opposition not to preempt the committee but to join hands with the state government in moving the state forward. She said: “So far, there has been no evidence to back up the allegations, but due to the weight of the allegation, a trusted committee has been set, whose results of the investigation will be available soon.” She said: “It will be wrong to put members of this committee under any form of duress, hence the need to avoid preemptive conclusions capable of jeopardizing their earnest efforts. The Commissioner urged Imo people to desist from the dissemination of unfounded rumours capable of disrupting the peace and harmony of our dear state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more