SOME Muslim organisations have commended the approval of hijab as part of the dress code for female police personnel in the country. The organisations, including the Muslim Media Watch Group of Nigeria (MMWG), University of Ibadan Muslim Graduates’ Association (UIMGA), Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN) and National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations (NACOMYO), commended the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, for responding to the yearnings of women officers as well as rank and file in the police system in Nigeria. The groups also condemned the opposition of certain individuals to the decision of the IGP, wondering why they would be against a step that is consistent with fundamental human rights The MMWG, in a statement by its national coordinator, Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim, described the policy as a “right step in the right direction.” According to the group, the new improved dress code for women in the police now brings the Nigeria Police to the same level as its counterparts the world over. It called on “open-minded and truly religious Christians who are our brothers and sisters not to allow ill-motivated ones among them to set Muslims and Christians on a collision course for their own selfish motives as we must remain one indivisible entity in Nigeria regardless of our religious, ethnic and cultural differences.” Also, the UIMGA said it agreed with the police authorities, saying that the approval was in line with global best practices. A statement by the national president of the association, Alhaji Imran AbdulMajeed, said: “We note that civilised countries that value human rights and freedom of religion have long ago approved this dress code. It is on record that the United States and the United Kingdom are in this category. “The use of headscarf under berets has no negative effect on the performance of the duties of policewomen and neither does it make them untidy. We do not see this approval as a gift to the Muslims alone as the two prominent religions in Nigeria (Islam and Christianity) enjoin their adherents to cover their heads in public. This is why you can never see a picture showing Mary, the mother of Jesus, without head cover.” “If a woman dresses in accordance with the approved dress code, in no way has that infringed on the right of another woman. We salute the courage of the Inspector General of Police for toeing the path of honour in line with the international best practices. The name of IGP has been written in gold. “We therefore call on all other security agencies and uniformed organisations to emulate the boldness of the Inspector General in this right direction.” MURIC, in its own reaction contained in a statement signed by the chairman of its Akwa Ibom State chapter, Ustadh Jibril Ayu-Akpanim, said: “We congratulate all Muslim policewomen in Nigeria on their newly won freedom. “Nigerians have seen many of them on the streets wearing the hijab with their uniform in the past few days. They look awesome, fantabulous, fantasmagoric and fantaslamic. We urge them to continue using it. Without a court pronouncement, no lawyer from anywhere can force them to remove it. Not even a SAN.” Similarly, the Oyo State chapter of the MMPN described the IGP’s approval as a welcome development, saying it would bring about religious diversity in the workplace for optimum output and professionalism. This was contained in a communique in Ibadan, Oyo State, after the monthly meeting of the association, held at the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Ibadan Zonal Station. The MMPN, in the communique signed by its state chairman, Alhaji Ridwan Fasasi, noted that the development was in line with international best practices. In the same vein, NACOMYO commended the police authorities for introducing the “new and improved dress code” for female police officers. In a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, signed by the National President, Malam Sani Suleiman Maigoro and National Secretary General, Alhaji Mas’ud Akintola, the organisation applauded the move “which is aimed, among others, to accommodate the peculiarities and diverse ethno-religious and cultural backgrounds of Nigeria’s female police officers who are drawn from all the 36 states of the federation and the 774 local government areas.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Hijab approval for policewomen  Hijab approval for policewomen Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Hijab approval for policewomen  Hijab approval for policewomen ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more