Nigerian beauty queen turned philanthropist, Isabella Okafor has added another feather to her wings as she recently received an honorary certificate from the Institute for Humanitarian Studies and Social Development in partnership with National Orientation Agency and United Nation Institute for Training and Research. The Annual Humanitarian Public Lecture and Graduation/Fellowship Induction ceremony which was held in Abuja over the summer of 2021 saw distinguished personalities, public servants and more honoured for their selfless contributions to human empowerment. Isabella who doubles as the reigning Ada Imo state pageant winner and founder Isabella Okafor initiative has been at the vanguard of humanitarian service. She’s often regarded as a modern woman and astute altruist who has dedicated much of her time to providing endless services for less privileged people in her community in Imo state and beyond. In reaction to the professional honour, the joyous do-gooder expressed satisfaction and gratitude to everyone who has supported and pushed her all along. “First, I like to thank God for the opportunity to serve the interest of the public. This certificate would not have been possible without the much support from concerned people who have pushed me to do what I love doing. “Also, Special regards to my family, they still remain my strongest backbone and I will do nothing to make you all proud”, she added. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.