As part of his consultation towards his aspiration to run for the Chairmanship of the All Progressives Congress (APC), former Governor of Nasarawa State and Senator representing Nasarawa central, Senator Tanko Al-Makura on Saturday visited the Chairman of the Southwest Governors’ Forum and Ondo State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu, The former governor who visited Akeredolu to seek his support ahead of the National Convention of the APC, declared his interest to run for the office of the party’s national chairman. Al-Makura and members of his campaign organization were received by the Governor at the government house, Alagbaka, where he said he decided to visit the sunshine state to inform Akeredolu of his aspiration because he is one of the leaders of the country and the conscience of the APC due to his sincerity and courage. He said “We are here with members of my campaign council to see you as one of the leaders of this country. As one of those who believe in true democracy. As one of those who have championed the inner mind of the people when it comes to justice, fairness and just cause. “We feel you have a role to play in determining and shaping how this party (APC) is put together, especially in this critical time of transition. We must ensure the continuity of the gains we have had from President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is the motivating factor that has made me throw my hat in the ring to consider contesting the office of the national chairman. We must give this party a principle, a good policy and raise the hope of our people. There is something that gives me comfort when I think about APC. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It’s a party I am faithful to, to a fault. Never in the history of this country has different parties come together and work together and put harmonious and united focus to drive the process of unity in the country. “President Buhari has held that tenaciously and made that the resolve and the sanctity of his administration. It has added value and we will just sustain it. We are here to solicit your support and cooperation,” Al-Makura submitted. He hailed Akeredolu for changing the face of Ondo State within five years, stressing that the Governor has added value to the sunshine state. Responding, Akeredolu thanked Al-Makura for the visit, while describing him as a competent and committed party man, said APC must establish a core value which the party must be known for, adding that there must be a general understanding among leaders and stakeholders of the party. “You have said many things and one thing that came out is APC value. We must be able to establish our value, else we are wasting our time. “What are our core values? do we have democratic values? Even if we will have to present a consensus candidate, it is consensus and not ‘one census,’ he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.