The original family game show from Africa Magic, ‘Come Play Naija’, made its debut on March 3 and has easily become a viewers favourite, with millions of faithful followers every episode. For participants and viewers alike, the show afforded back to back winning. According to viewers who spoke to Nigerian Tribune, MultiChoice, via its Africa Magic platforms continues to promote family values, curating home grown entertainment and continues to reinforce its commitment to creating unique local content, rewarding customers and also providing all-around fun entertainment options for every family beyond dramas and reality shows. Comedian and media personality, Hero Daniels, is in charge of the ‘Come Play Naija’ game show and brought his wits, charm and excitement during every episode. During each show, two teams, identified by colours and made up of four members compete for a chance to win millions of naira and ultimately a brand-new car at the end of the show. Participants can also win up to five million naira weekly. Each episode consists of five segments with different games – Trivia games, Obstacle Course 1, Obstacle Course 2, Obstacle Course 3, and Spin the Wheel. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The winning team from each episode advance to the finale episode, to screen this weekend and compete for the grand prize. The finale episode will air on DStv channel 199 and GOtv channel 29 from 10 pm on Friday, March 25th, and will run into the morning of Saturday, March 26th. Already, over 100 viewers have won N50,000 each, as the ‘Come Play Naija’ incorporated a ‘Home Play Edition’ on the live show where active DStv and GOtv subscribers are given an opportunity to guess and lock in the team which would emerge the winner. The game shows have witnessed intense competition amidst fun and camaraderie. The first week had Team Purple emerging as the winner and also had 40 lucky viewers who were able to guess the wining team correctly. The second week, Team Indigo, led by actress and former Big Brother Naija housemate, Venita Akpofure, emerged as the winners of the game. Also, 40 viewers were rewarded with N50,000 each for guessing the winning team correctly. In the third week, Team Magenta emerged as the winning team and like every other week, 40 viewers were also rewarded. This Friday, the finale will be held among the winning teams from all episodes and the ultimate winners will emerge. Again, cash prizes will be won in addition to the brand new car up for grabs. Here, winner takes all! ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details