All meetings of the organs of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) earlier scheduled for Tuesday to deliberate on its 2023 election guidelines and timetable have been moved to Wednesday. The meetings were meant to have kick-started with that of the National Caucus last Monday night which had to be adjourned after what the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, called effective discussions. The National Caucus meeting was supposed to precede that of the Board of Trustees (BoT) and the National Executive Committee (NEC), both of which had earlier been scheduled for Tuesday. All have now been moved to Wednesday to take place at the party national secretariat in Abuja. “After effective discussions, we have adjourned the meeting to Wednesday for the continuation of all the issues on the agenda. On Wednesday at 10 a.m. the caucus meeting will hold, thereafter the BoT meeting and then the NEC meeting,” the party spokesman said. However, before the adjournment of the Monday night National Caucus meeting, the chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, Aminu Tambuwal, appealed to feuding members of the PDP to sheath their swords. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, have recently engaged in a public altercation, suggesting that all is not well with the forum. Tambuwal, who observed that the outcome of recent elections in the country is an indication that citizens what PDP back, appealed to all party leaders and members to bury their differences and work in harmony, adding: “We must give the right signal to Nigerians, that we are united and ready to rescue this country.” Also speaking, the national chairman of the PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, assured that everything necessary to resolve the crises in the state chapters of the party is being done. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “That also brings me to the crisis in other state chapters. We are to conduct congresses in state chapters that we did not have congresses before. “Whatever problem that may have arisen from those congresses, we are addressing them and we hope that by the time we resolve everything the party will be stronger than ever before,” he said. The party boss disclosed that the PDP is working round the clock to ensure that it meets up with the election timetable released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Ayu added: “We are very much on course and this meeting is for us to look at our own timetable and guidelines. “We are determined that we will keep strictly to the guideline in spite of the short time that is available to us. We will keep to this timeline. “We are sure that by next year, we will win most seats in the National Assembly and most importantly produce the next president. “We urge Nigerians not to lose hope. We are coming and we will rebuild this country.” He also affirmed that despite the challenges it faces, the PDP has continued to make progress, citing the recent results in the Federal Capital Territory Area Council elections as well as by-elections in Cross River, Ondo and Imo states. “We are making steady progress and I believe that with time we will take over everywhere,” he added. In his remarks, the chairman of PDP BoT, Senator Walid Jibrin, appealed to the party leaders not to abandon the old party members even as they welcome those returning after defecting to other parties. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity