The Secretary to the State Government of Kebbi State (SSG), Umar Babale Yauri has disclosed that scores of soldiers were killed by bandits in Zuru emirate on Tuesday. He said the killing of the soldiers occurred a day after about 65 vigilantes were killed in Anemi village of Sakaba local government area of the state. He made this known while receiving the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, who was on a state visit to the state on Wednesday. Yauri, who briefed the minister on the security situation in the state said some soldiers were killed by bandits however did not give the number of the soldiers killed. According to him, the government was making effort to tackle the increasing insecurity bedevilling the southern part of the state. “We lost about 65 vigilantes members. And even yesterday(Tuesday) we lost some military officers engaging with the bandits. “The issue of banditry was formerly a casual thing in Kebbi but in view of what is currently happening in Zamfara, the bandits are facing a serious challenge from the military, therefore, forced to come into Kebbi especially, the southern part of Kebbi.” Responding, the Minister said he was in the state on the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari, to condole with the government and people of Kebbi State over the recent killing of members of vigilante in the state. The Minister noted the President urged the state to stand firm in dealing with the challenges of the banditry. “There will be no retreat and we will not be bound with the challenges of banditry and terrorists in the northern states,” he declared. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Bandits kill scores  Bandits kill scores Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Bandits kill scores  Bandits kill scores ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more