ADEOLA OTEMADE reports on the ongoing fuel scarcity across the country with many Nigerians lamenting the untold hardship it has visited on them, thus compounding their problems and chances of survival. Life does not seem to be going smooth for the average Nigerian at the moment. From struggling to make a living to grappling with poor economic conditions that has left many in a bad state, dealing with a condition of biting fuel scarcity appears to be the new face of hardship for them. Adeyemo Kamoli, a graduate of Business Administration, with a wife and a child to cater for, survives each day with the Point Of Sale (POS) business he runs with his wife. While speaking with Sunday Tribune, Kamoli lamented the current state of the country as one that could trigger suicide in Nigerians. “I graduated from EsaOke Polytechnic since 2011; I searched for jobs for a long time, I couldn’t get any. I decided to go into transportation business, but it wasn’t yielding much result. I started this business centre alongside the POS business some years back. Though it is still not what we desire, but it is better than nothing. “My wife and I run the business centre, but due to the fuel scarcity, light (poor power supply) issues, we have not been able to run our business. There has been no electricity supply to charge the POS machines; we are unable to get fuel to run our generator to charge them. Some fillings stations here in Apete area of Ibadan sell a litre of fuel for N300. We have been at home for over a week now. “When the fuel scarcity started, we thought it was something that would be addressed as soon as possible. The electricity supply has been terrible. It’s almost a month now, and nothing has been done. One would have to be on queue for hours before being able to get fuel. On some other days, one may end up wasting the whole day without getting fuel. We have been trying to manage with the little we have,” Kamoli lamented. His travail mirrors those of many other suffering families and business owners facing the current hardship in the country. A welder who wishes to be addressed simply as Mukaila, while speaking with Sunday Tribune, believes the current situation is intentionally foisted on Nigerians by the government. According to him: “citizens are trying to make ends meet in every way they could, but the government isn’t helping in any way. “I have not been able to work for some time now; the whole thing started with a face-off with the Oyo State government and the power holding company. There was no light for days, only for the fuel scarcity to emerge. We thought it was going to go away in a few days, as what we heard was that adulterated fuel was imported into the country, and that the matter would be addressed in a couple of weeks. “It’s almost a month now, and nothing has been done. I have not been able to work, I can’t get fuel to run the generator. For how long am I going to keep running on generator, buying five litres of fuel for N2,500 at black market rate. My wife has not been able to sell her soft drinks because she can’t get fuel to run the generator the electricity supply has been epileptic as well. It’s really a sad tale out there.” The situation is not any different for Fatai Azeez, a motorcyclist who plies Omi Adio, Apata and Challenge route as he has resorted to buying fuel from the black market to keep his business going. According to him, “going to the filling station to queue for a long time is not a child’s play; most times you queue for a long time, and end up not buying anything. We had no choice but to increase fare prices. People are complaining, but what do we do having bought a litre of fuel for N200. Even at black market rate, five litres of fuel is being sold for N1,200, while the 75cl plastic bottle goes for N600. “It’s not easy; there is no light. We work tirelessly under the hot sun to make ends meet, only for us to buy things at high rate. Many commuters think okadariders and taxi drivers intentionally hike transport fares, but the stress we go through before getting fuel isn’t funny.”  More sad tales… While lamenting his ordeal, Biodun Samuel, an entrepreneur, said ever since the fuel scarcity began, he leaves home every day with seven jerry cans to buy water as there had been no electricity supply in his area. “Apete has always been known for bad having electricity supply, coupled with the scarcity in fuel availability. Some filling stations at Apete sells for N300 per litre. I had to come down here from Apete to Sabo here at Mokola to source for fuel. I was told they sell for 190 at this filling station,” he revealed this while speaking with Sunday Tribune. Emmanuel Udo, IT professional and a Bolt driver told Sunday Tribune that getting fuel had been agonising and that no matter how early he got to a fuel station he always met a long queue, meeting many who had parked there overnight. “At 10am, sales began but stopped at about 12noon because they needed to offload fuel from a tanker that had just arrived. This caused another delay till about 3pm when sales resumed again. I was able to get some fuel at about 4:30pm. However and quite unfortunately too, those that came to buy with gallons were not allowed to buy even after waiting for hours. “The reality out here is really harsh to say the least, especially for those that are into transportation business. Did I forget to mention the level of bad traffic being experienced due to these queues? “I must add that at the point of buying, I was told I couldn’t buy more than N5000 worth of fuel except I dropped a tip which I did so I could get up to N10,000 worth of fuel in my car. I gave the attendant N500,” he added. Even a medical doctor who should be on essential duty was not spared. Dr.MoyoOdole got to the filling station at about 5:30am, having being on call the night before. He had left his office straight to the filling station. “A colleague got here at 9am and left around 3pm without buying. I have been here since 5:30 am, and this is 1pm, they were only selling for bike men, they said they would still sell for cars, but we are still waiting. No one has come out to say this is what is going on. The NNPC MD promised the problem would be fixed within a week plus, but nothing has been done,” he narrated when Sunday Tribune spoke to him. Saseyi Olawunme, an English teacher in a public secondary school in Lagos State, also lamented how it’s been difficult to shuttle between school and home using the public means of transportation. According to her, “the fuel scarcity has been a serious issue and it has affected me as a teacher and my students also. Transport fare is on the increase. My transport fare to school before was N200 but now it is N400. “Most students don’t come to school anymore because of the high cost of okada, which their parents cannot afford.  Those who come, trek and get to school late most times when the second period is almost over. “Normally, school closes at 2pm. And then we have prep from 2pm to 3pm. That’s no longer possible because we have to consider the students. They trek back home and this hot weather can affect their health. “Almost everything is expensive, sellers complain that the commercial drivers bill them on the high side because it was not easy getting fuel for their vehicles. As a result, sellers increase the price of their commodities. “Even when it comes to charging of phones; the price was N50 before the fuel scarcity issue, but now it’s N100. The blame should not be on the people providing this service because if you listen to their plight, you would be forced to pay the money,” she added.  Booming Black Market business The hitherto illegal back market business has turned out to be the saviour for many consumers of fuel. In order to avoid queuing for long hours at the filling stations, many motorists have decided to patronise black market operators who sell at exorbitant prices. Sunday Tribune investigation discovered that at the popular Sabo market in Ibadan, five litres of fuel go for between N2,000 and N2,500 while a plastic bottle of table water sold for N1,200. A black market seller revealed to Sunday Tribune that the source of their own fuel supply are the petrol station attendants who sell to them at higher prices, while they in turn make money when they sell to the final consumers. “It’s all business,” he said. However, there are consumers who fear for adulterated fuel and would rather stick to the regular fuel stations irrespective of how long it takes them to get fuel. Efe, an entertainer told Sunday Tribune: “I would rather queue for a long time at the filling station than buy from these black market sellers. They sell all kind of petrol, some looking like kerosene, some almost like water. In the end, you might have to source for money to repair your car engine again.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is gladdening that only six months after that memorable event, the Minister of Interior is back in Enugu to perform another significant and symbolic ceremony. This time, the Minister accompanied by the Acting Comptroller General of Immigration, is in the Coal City to unveil the enhanced E-Passport and Commission the Passport Production Centre for the South East situated in Enugu within this Complex.” Speaking also, the Acting Comptroller General enthused that the people of the South East can now rejoice, pointing out that it was not that his Service oblivious of the suffering of the people but that time and resources had not permitted earlier action. He commended Gov Ugwuanyi for his support and assistance to the State Command that had culminated in the realization of the project. Responding, Aregbesola showered encomium on Ugwuanyi who he described as his good friend and one who has been of immense assistance to the Immigration Service in Enugu state. The minister said not only does South East have a passport production centre within reach but also that the people now have access to an array of choices of the enhanced E-Passport that will aid their globe-trotting disposition. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.