Governments at all levels have been tasked to give maximum priority to entrepreneurial education, employment generation in the rural areas, diversification of the economy as well as adequate funding of university systems so as to be in tune with global education practices. The vice chancellor of Lead City University, Ibadan, Professor Kabiru Adeyemi, stated this while speaking as the guest lecturer at the fourth matriculation ceremony of the Precious Cornerstone University, Ibadan, a faith-based tertiary institution owned by the Sword of  Spirit Ministries in Ibadan. The university administrator also tasked the government to effectively tackle insecurity, combat poverty, improve infrastructure facilities just as he urged the students to adapt to the changing environment and embrace the core values of the university system. He urged the 97 newly matriculated students to think out of the box by embracing creativity, saying “it is through creativity that graduates can be relevant in the 21 century. Always look at the pragmatic ways of solving societal problems.” He charged them to have clear vision for the needs of the society; to develop their talents and skills as well as learn how to take reasonable risks. On his part, the vice chancellor of Precious Cornerstone University, Professor Julius  Oloke, hinted that the National Universities Commission (NUC) had granted the university a permanent licence and had also accredited all the courses in the university. While commending the founder of the university, Bishop Francis Wale Oke, for his efforts on the university, he advised the new students who were admitted into the Faculties of Pure and Applied Science and Social Management Sciences to embrace entrepreneurial skills, participate in different sporting events while they are in schools and other skills that would make them become employers of labour after graduation. “Make the best use of this opportunity by allowing the university to pass through you. Also, choose to obey all the rules and regulations of the university,’’ he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details