Nigeria is actually blessed with abundant natural resources yet, it is regarded as a third world country. This is because the country has been underdeveloped due to bad leadership. Since Nigeria became independent in 1960, there has been no improvement in the power sector, health sector, agricultural sector and so many other sectors. We live in a country where our leaders lack the political will to move the nation forward. Life has indeed lost its value where dead bodies litter the street appealing for evacuation. It is so pathetic. The issue of kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery, ritual killings, terrorism, systematic killings, 419 scams and other social vices has become very rampant in Nigeria. This is due to high level of unemployment. The Nigeria government has failed to provide job opportunities to the people. They have lost focus and integrity to promote the well being of the citizens. I equally seek and desire a different society that will be better from the picture painted above. In the next twenty five years to come, I envisage that there would be a new Nigeria where everybody will be living happily. There will be no injustice, stealing and committing of evils. Nigeria’s economy will boom, and there will be job opportunities, good standard of living, functional and qualitative education, stable power supply, access to affordable medicare and infrastructural development. The citizens will be proud of being a Nigeria. I am very sure that my prediction will come to pass. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity