The much-anticipated convergence of the global Afrobeat community in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates tagged the AfroZons Dubai Soundoff, will hold on Monday. The event put together by the Dubai Tourism and Economy Department in conjunction with American Afrobeat promoters, AfroZons will have on the bandstand, Popular Afrobeat sensation, D’Banj, along with Afrobeat DJs and artists from around the world. The list includes DJ K Ceaser, DJ Nickie, Aya Ito, DJ Nosike, and Stonebwoy. The AfroZonsDXB Desert Party is also being attended by 20 Journalists from across Africa. According to the organisers, the journalists “will not only experience the glamour of the Soundoff but will also tell the stories of participants and create a lasting memory.” Apart from the journalists, Radio Hosts, Celebrities and Key Opinion Leaders in the Afrobeat community from across the globe are already in Dubai to join Afro beat celebrities from around the world to go through what the Dubai Tourism and Economy Department and Afrozons promised would be “a mind-blowing tour of Dubai.” Journalists already in Dubai were on Friday conducted round the Museum of the Future, an architectural masterpiece rising 77 metres above the ground which was unveiled last February by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai. Speaking with journalists on the eve of Monday’s event, the multiple award-winning Afrobeat superstar, D’Banj said he looks forward to Monday’s performance as Dubai has inspired him in various ways. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.