Tragedy struck in Imo Wednesday when two prison officers of Imo Correctional Centre were on Wednesday killed by gunmen. The attack occurred this morning at the Umulolo in Okigwe town of Imo State where the gunmen laying siege ambushed them killing two officers. Security personnel who do not want to be mentioned told our correspondent that the prison officers who left Owerri this morning were ambushed by their attackers at Okigwe. The source said the attackers threw dynamites on the 2 Hilux vans of officers of Imo correctional centre killing two persons on the spot while others were injured and have been rushed to the hospital. He said that one Hilux van was destroyed by the dynamite while the other was not affected. Tribune Online gathered that the unaffected van has been rescued and returned to base at the command’s headquarters in Owerri. The Public Relations Officer of Imo Correctional Centre, Goodluck Uboegbulem when contacted confirmed the incident. He said that the Command is still accessing the situation and promised to give full details of the incident later. The Spokesman of Imo State Police Command, CSP Michael Abatham when contacted confirmed the incident adding that it involved the officers of the Correctional Centre Owerri. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity