An Ondo South All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial aspirant, Mr. Boye Oyewumi, has reiterated his commitment to ensuring that women in the senatorial district are given the much needed incentives and atmosphere to thrive and attain a new level of social status if he is voted to represent them in the Senate. Oyewumi, who is the current Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Ondo State Development and Investment Promotional Agency, stated this during an APC stakeholder’s meeting in Ilaje and Ese-Odo local government areas respectively on Friday. According to Oyewumi, “women are not just home-builders but also community builders, they possess fantastic managerial and leadership qualities which if well harnessed, will be vital tools for nation-building.” While welcoming over 100 women into his campaign platform, Agbajowo Movement, Oyewumi assured them that if given the opportunity to represent the people in the Senate, he will ensure a holistic transformation of women welfare and advancement in the senatorial district. Oyewumi promised to facilitate proper access to quality healthcare system, incorporate more women into the fold, empowering them to be self-sufficient and also ensuring they are well represented in the political cum leadership roles. “It is passion that is driving me, I am not going there to advance my personal interest or seek personal glorification, all I want is an opportunity to impact lives and make a positive history,” he said. Present at the stakeholders meeting were, Mr. Raphael Adegboye, APC Chairman, Ilaje Local Government; Mr. Alex Kalejaiye, Publicity Secretary, APC, Ondo State; Princess Aderonke Efurubu, APC Women Leader, Ilaje LGA, Mrs. Williams Douye Elizabeth, Women Leader, Ese Odo LGA, and Mr. Okpimi Ayauna Minna, APC Chairman, Ese Odo LGA. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more