The sum of N100m has been approved by the Bauchi State Government for the 36th National Qur’anic Recitation Competition to the hosted in Bauchi declaring that there is no plan by his administration to abolish the Tsangaya system of education. The approval was announced by the State Governor, Sen Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed on Saturday while inaugurating a 57-member Local Organizing Committee (LOC) for the competition held at the Banquet Hall of the Government House. Bala Mohammed further assured to provide the necessary support to enable the Committee to carry out the assignment without any hitch noting that, “the selection of competent, experienced and knowledgeable people of proven integrity to serve as members of the local organizing committee is to ensure the full success of the event”. The Governor also said that the terms of reference of the Committee are to ensure the successful hosting of the Musabaqa in collaboration with Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto; to form sub-committees to monitor the conduct of the event and ensure the provision of adequate security, healthcare and welfare services to the judges and the participants. Others he said are to liaise with individuals, corporate organizations and all stakeholders within and outside the state to solicit for their contributions to compliment funding of the programme; make a fair, realistic and detailed budget of the financial implication of the event; ensure judicious utilization of funds provided as well as to submit a comprehensive report within two weeks after the completion. He stressed that “As we all know, the Musabaqa is a process of training the Muslims, particularly the younger ones, the correct reading, recitation and the memorization of the Glorious Qur’an with its translation. The hosting of the 36th edition of the National Musabaqa by Bauchi State Government in collaboration with Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto is an opportunity to organize the best ever national Musabaqa”. Bala Mohammed further said that “I want to assure that, Bauchi State Government would do its best to ensure that the 36th edition of the National Musabaqa would for a very long time be remembered as the most successful.” He used the medium to disclaim a rumour that his administration is planning to abolish Tsangaya schools, saying that the state government is only against street begging by Almajirai. The Governor added that Tsangaya and other modern Qur’anic schools are an avenue for learning Islamic knowledge where delegates that participated at various levels of Qur’anic competitions are produced. In his remarks, the Chairman of the Local Organizing Committee and former Grand Khadi of Bauchi State Sharia Court of Appeal, Abdullahi Yakubu Marafa called for teamwork among the Committee members for the success of the assignment. Abdullahi Marafa added that “Your Excellency, we are grateful to you for finding us worthy to serve in this committee and we are going to ensure justice, fairness in the discharge of our responsibilities for the success of the event.” He assured that the Committee with operate in line with the terms of reference in order to achieve the objectives of the setting of the Committee which will, in turn, result in the successful hosting of the competition in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more