THE Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige has expressed Africa’s resolve to win the forthcoming election for the position of Director-General for the International Labour Organisation (ILO), slated for March 25, 2022. Ngige said this last Friday in Abuja when he received the African Union (AU) candidate for the election, Gilbert Houngbo of the Republic of Togo. Houngbo, who came to solicit Nigeria’s support, was accompanied by the Ambassador of Togo to Nigeria, Lene Dimban, other embassy officials and the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba. A press statement by Charles Akpan, the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, said Ngige noted that although two candidates were coming from Africa, Nigeria as a tripartite member of the ILO Governing Board would do everything possible to see that the continent spoke with one voice during the election in Geneva. The Minister said he was delighted that the AU candidate understood the politics of ILO and the aspiration of Africa with regards to the democratisation of the UN agency. He added that having worked in ILO before now, Huongbo would bring to the table a wealth of experience garnered over the years, if elected as the DG. Ngige emphasised that besides the fact that the Togolese has been chosen as the continental candidate, Nigeria firmly believes and promotes regional cooperation and integration. He said, “You have done good diplomatic work to make your country, Togo, present you to Africa. Nigeria and Togo belong to the ECOWAS and AU. So, I want to congratulate you for the hurdle you crossed in the continent. As far as we are concerned, you are a continental candidate now. “You should continue to campaign because it is not over until it is over. ILO has 187 member states, cutting across different continents of the world. We want you to step out to other continents and talk to them, just like the Koreans, Australians and the French came here. “You should also go to their places to let them know that you are from a group of wise people living in the African continent. They will know that you are not from a dark continent but from a continent that is lit up, shining in blossoming light. Africa should show the light. “Your resume speaks volumes. You are the President of the International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD). You are neither a pushover candidate nor a candidate that is being managed. We are not presenting you as a lame-duck person to say that Africa contested. We are contesting to win.” The Minister expressed happiness that the AU candidate realised that Africa was leading the quest for the democratisation of ILO. He recalled that as government leader and chairman of the Governing Board for two years, he championed the democratisation of the UN agency, speaking on behalf of Africa, Asia and other continents. “You have also mentioned the pains Africa suffered, especially with youth unemployment. I don’t want to over flog it but you can see the symptoms and social dislocations security wise.  I will also ask you that if you get there, you work with other UN bodies to assist Africa, especially West Africa, to benefit from the technical assistance being offered by all these bodies. We need all these assistance to fight all the menace of unemployment, caused by our burgeoning population.” “Nigeria asks for more social protection assistance. ILO has to do more. Social protection is an ILO matter, but ILO has not shown sufficient lead in the implementation of social security in member countries, be it old age, maternity and health.  ILO has to take up the gauntlet, for protection of people who risked the great part of their life for working in service to their country.” Earlier, Huongbo said Africa is very critical to him in his current position as IFAD President and also in the race for the DG of ILO, the reason he came to seek Ngige’s advice as they enter the last line of the race. The AU candidate, while commending the scientific and technological innovations, political momentum and commitment deployed by member countries towards addressing the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19, lamented that social justice was lagging behind. He stressed the need to bring back social justice at the centre of international, regional and national cooperations and agreements and to ensure that ILO, given its special nature, contributes to the advancement of the social agenda, while working on the economic and environmental dimensions He pledged to prioritise youth employment through skill development and insurance for the jobs that would be lost as a result of the degradation of the economy by the pandemic. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.