As the Nigerian music industry continues to evolve,  the music space has begun to experience a surge in the number of upcoming artistes  who are  in making a name for themselves as well as fulfilling their dreams of being on the big stages. One of the artistes currently pushing for the top of his career is Obodoruku Oghenegueke, also known as ‘Gueke’ as he revealed that he’s ready to take on the world of music by storm and move his career to a new level. While speaking in an interview with R, the singer said that he is prepared to enter the music world with his unique voice and style and worm his way into the hearts of music lovers. Gueke who nursed a passion and love for music from a tender age, attributed his success  so far to his roots of being a church instrumentalist as early as age eight, which set him in line for the journey  into the music industry. He further  opined that owing to the experiences  and knowledge gathered so far, he has what it takes to build a thriving career in music, adding that it only takes someone who has  gone through training and mastered the rudiments of music to be able to successfully remain relevant  in the industry. The singer came into the spotlight with the release of his debut single ‘Komaroll’ in November 2019 and has continuously worked towards remaining relevant in his career. With the recent launch of his new entitled ‘Attitude’ which was released in February 2022, Gueke seems to have made up his mind to set the pace for others to follow. “I am enthusiastic about my decision to journey into music. I am very determined to make my name known both home and abroad. I’m also ready for whatever challenges that may come because  it’s  always a part of the process and in order to succeed, I’m ready to do what it takes to achieve my goals,” he said. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team