In its poise to see that Women are self-reliant in order to assist their families, the National Council of Women Societies, (NCWS), Kaduna branch today trained and empowered women across the 23 Local Government areas of Kaduna State. Speaking on the empowerment programme, which is also in commemoration of the 2022 International Women’s Day, President of the Society, Barr. Zainab Hassan said, the society organized a skill acquisition and training for the Women across the 23 LGAs on Spaghetti Making, Tie and Die, Adire Makeup among other trades. She also added that other training for the Women, in collaboration with the Ministry for the environment on how to make alternative means of cooking called briquette and every local government were presented with one machine to train those at the rural areas. She said, “Today by the grace of God, we are empowering women that attended the skill acquisition workshop organized by the NCWS Kaduna state Branch and this is made possible by the support of the Kaduna state commissioner of Human Services and Social Development who supported us from day one” She hinted that the organization hope to engage itself, in collaboration with the Ministry of Human Services and Social Development and the 23 Local Government this year, in the Following areas; Eradication of polio from Kaduna State, Assist the indigent girls that have dropped out of Schools to go back to school and follow up cases in the court concerning divorce and assaults child abuse and other similar cases and we say no to violence against women”, she said. NCWS which was established many decades ago aimed to promote the economy, Social Welfare, progress of Women, youth and people living with disabilities, to mobilize women and facilitate their political and economic empowerment towards self-reliance among others. Flagging off the distribution of the empowerment equipment, Kaduna State Deputy Governor, Hadiza Balarabe Sabuwa said, women, are the bedrock of development in any society. The Deputy Governor Who commended the NCWS for training and empowering Women across the 23 LGAs, expressed that, ‘when you train a woman, you trained the society’. She, therefore, urged the beneficiaries to step down the training to their various members in the Local Government Areas. Similarly, The Commissioner for Human Service and Social Development, Hasfat Mohammed Baba said Kaduna is a Woman- friendly state, noting that recently, over N200M interest-free loan was given to women in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity