THE Kano/Jigawa Command of the Nigeria Customs Service has generated N10.167 billion from January to March 2022. This was just as the command disclosed that the Maigatari border has been opened in order to generate more revenue for the command. Area Controller of the command, Muhammad Abubakar Umar, disclosed this on Thursday at a press conference held at the command headquarters Bampai, Kano. According to him, the N10.167 billion is a great improvement from the N7.6bn generated in the corresponding period of 2021. He, however, said that “the differences between this year’s collections of three months with that of 2021, stood at N2.4 billion which means the Command would achieve its set target.” The seized contrabands goods from smugglers through the endowment unit of the command includes foreign rice, spaghetti, donkey skins, second-hand clothes and other goods valued at N498.6 million. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Umar said that four persons were arrested in connection with the smuggling of donkey skins. His words, “I call on all smugglers to leave the illegal business and find a lawful job to do since there will be no hiding place for them going forward. “When I assumed duty, I realized that Maigatari Border was not functioning, I investigated to know what is happening, already I have assigned personnel to ensure that the border is fully functional and all the needed revenue are collected from there.” He said the command has been working with all stakeholders to ensure its core mandate of trade facilitation without compromising National security. According to him, “Since I assumed duty, I have been marketing the Kano Command of the Nigeria Customs Service by telling them that if you bring your goods you are guaranteed of quick delivery.” He commended the Controller General of the Nigeria Customs, Col. Hamid Ali, rtd, for ensuring a good working environment for officers and men despite the hard economic condition. While speaking on the Kano Free Trade Zone, Umar said he is working with other sister agencies to ensure smooth operations in the area.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details