Former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and a top contender for the position of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said contrary to media reports, he was not endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari. Senator Adamu made the clarification in Keffi while he was playing host to officials of the party at the Local Government level at his Keffi country home, on Saturday. Recall, during the last meeting of the APC, it was gathered that the president had endorsed Senator Adamu and that the announcement did not go down well with the party’s stakeholders and state governors. It will be recalled that some governors, in a statement, said Senator Adamu is not a core member of the party, saying someone who knows the ins and outs of the party should be the one to head the party and not a former member of PDP. The governors also alleged that his performance as the chairman of the APC reconciliation committee was also not encouraging to give him the mandate. However, a source who was privy at the Keffi meeting said the senator told those present to disregard reports, saying Buhari has not endorsed him. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He told them to pray for his success at the convention of the party slated for March 26, 2022. “Senator Adamu told those at the meeting that President Buhari has not endorsed any candidate for the position of the national chairman. “Instead, Senator Adamu requested for the party officials to pray for his successful emergence as the next national chairman of the APC,” the source said. According to the source, the former governor appealed to the party officials to mobilise at least 100 persons from each electoral ward that will accompany him to the national convention slated for March 26.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.