Nigeria’s Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has commended the force investigation units and tactical squads and the judiciary for securing the conviction of four suspected armed robbers. IGP Alkali Baba lauded the achievements of the investigation units and tactical squads of the Force for various convictions recorded in cases investigated and charged to Courts of competent jurisdiction across the country. The four suspects who were investigated and charged for criminal conspiracy and armed robbery by the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB-IRT), Abuja included Tochukwu Uwalaka, Gideon Igbabo, Miracle Amaechi, and Jamil Abdulsalam. According to the Ag. Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the suspects were on the night of 23rd August, 2016, at gun point lured a 10-year-old female to gain access into her parents’ residence at Kuje District in Abuja and dispossessed them of their valuables. He explained further, “The suspects thereafter attacked the victim and her family with dangerous weapons, and carted away valuable items which included a 2006 Xterra Jeep, a 2008 Toyota Camry, 2 HP laptops, phones, a digital camera, cash sum of N200,000 and jewelleries. The matter was transferred to the FIB-IRT where operatives swiftly apprehended one of the suspects who led the Squad to the three accomplices. Having heard evidences from the prosecution, defendants and witnesses, Honourable Justice Ebong of the Zuba High Court sitting at the Gwagwalada High Court Division, Abuja on 6th January, 2022, affirmed the guilt of the defendants and sentenced the four suspects to death by hanging for offences bordering on criminal conspiracy, armed robbery, house trespass, and assault in contravention of the provisions of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provision) Act, 2004, and the Penal Code Law. The Inspector-General of Police, however, commended the judiciary and the Force Intelligence Bureau Intelligence Response Team (FIB-IRT), under the staunch leadership of DCP Olatunji Disu, and the doggedness of the operatives in ensuring justice in the matter and for following through on operational successes with prosecutorial prowess which has led to the conviction of these suspects. He equally reaffirmed the commitment of the Force Leadership to ensuring that all matters reported to the police are properly followed up until conviction is secured at courts of competent jurisdictions.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details