Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have intercepted three million capsules of opioids, more dangerous and potent than tramadol at Jaelith Bonded Container Terminal under Tincan seaport in Apapa area of Lagos State. The seizure of 3,000,000 capsules of Tapentadol and Carisoprodol weighing 1,500 kilograms on Monday, according to the NDLEA Director, Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi followed a similar operation in which anti-narcotic officers of the Agency also intercepted 8,613 kilograms of Loud cannabis smuggled in from Ghana through the waterways at the Eko Atlantic Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos on Sunday. The seized drugs at the bonded terminal were discovered during a joint examination of a 20ft container, SUDU 7774749 with men of Customs service. Babafemi said though the consignment was said to have originated from Ningbo province in China and was falsely labelled as containing 271 packages of “insulating fittings, faucet water closet (wc), industrial office printing machine”, investigations revealed that information on the bill of laden and shipping documents was fake. Further investigations, he said, uncovered that the container originated from India and arrived in Nigeria Apapa port on 10th February 2022. Findings showed that the Tramadol found and labelled as Tafrodol 120mg is actually Tapentadol, which is a more dangerous and potent opioid than Tramadol. It was also discovered that the container, SUDU 7774749 was consigned from India in Nhava Sheva port, then trans loaded through Morocco and Ghana to Nigeria. Meanwhile, based on credible intelligence, operatives of the Lagos Command of the Agency in the early hours of Sunday intercepted a consignment of Cannabis Sativa (Loud) weighing 8,613kg smuggled from Ghana through the waterways to the Eko Atlantic Beachside, Victoria Island. Some drivers and their assistants: Adeyemi Bayioku, Godwin Anya, Yusuf Taofik, and Adeniyi Adelaja, who were on the ground to load the shipment into their vehicles were promptly arrested while two trucks, a Siena space bus, Peugeot Boxer bus and a Toyota Camry car were seized from them. Chairman and Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Marwa (Rtd) has commended the officers and men of the Tincan port and Lagos Command of the Agency for their vigilance and commitment to the mission to rid Nigeria of illicit drugs. He also applauded the current synergy and working relationship between the Agency and other law enforcement agencies in the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NDLEA intercepts 3million  NDLEA intercepts 3million Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NDLEA intercepts 3million  NDLEA intercepts 3million ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more