A community leader in the Ilorin emirate, Mogaji AGY Akorede, of Budo Osho, Tanke area in the Ilorin metropolis, has been remanded in the Correctional Service Centre, for allegedly hiring hoodlums to distort the peace of the community. The said Mogaji, who was dragged before a Sango Magistrate court, presided over by Magistrate Hanafi Folorunsho, was said to have been evading police arrest until a bench warrant was issued against him by the court. According to the police First Information Report (FIR), one Habeeb Abdullahi of Fate Road, Ilorin, reported the presence of suspected hoodlums on a disputed site at Budo Osho when he was allegedly harassed by suspected hoodlums reportedly hired by the community leader. It was also gathered that Police prompt action led to the arrest of two members of the suspected hoodlums as one sharp cutlass, wraps of dried substance suspected to be Indian hemp, one firelighter, among several other incriminating items were recovered from them. Magistrate Folorunsho, after listening to the submission of the prosecutor, ordered the defendants to be remanded while the matter was adjourned to April 26. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details