A Magistrate Court sitting in Akure has ordered the remand of two brothers, Oloruntoyin Abdullahi aged 31, and Ayodele Kazeem aged 26, to prison custody over the killing of a teenager, identified as Ebunoluwa Osatuyi. The young girl was said to have been found inside her parents’ apartment on January 24 after returning from evening classes and was suspected to have been axed and clubbed to death by the two brothers. The two brothers were arrested by the police in the state after tracing the phone of the young girl to the two brothers. The Police Prosecutor, Ajiboye Obadasa, informed the court that the defendants killed Osatuyi by hitting her head with a pestle at about 5:40 pm, at No 1, Otiko Street, Okuta Elerinla, Akure. He said the offence was contrary to Section 316 and punishable under Section 9 of the Criminal Code, Cap 37, Vol 1 Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. The two defendants, who were docked for conspiracy and murder pleaded not guilty to the charge and claimed to have found the phone on the ground along Cathedral Junction According to Oloruntoyin, who said he picked the phone on the ground for his personal use, but later gave it to his brother, the second defendant, to make an urgent call. He said, ” I was in my house resting when the police came with my brother that I was involved in the killing of a lady with a pestle, which sounded strange to me. ” I was later told that the phone I gave my brother to make a call was stolen from a crime scene at Okuta Elerinla which also seemed strange to me.” The Presiding Magistrate, Damilola Sekoni, however, ordered the remand of the two defendants at the Owo Correctional Centre and adjourned the case to March 28, 2022, for mentioning. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more