An Ondo South senatorial aspirant, Mr. Boye Oyewumi, has assured stakeholders and members of the All Progressive Congress [APC] in Ilaje and Okitipupa local government areas of his readiness to ensure that the senatorial district attains its rightful place among the league of regions in the oil producing states in the country if given the opportunity to represent the people of the senatorial district in the National Assembly. Oyewumi, who is also the Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ondo State Development and Investment Promotional Agency, stated this on Wednesday when he visited stakeholders and members of the local government areas. According to him, Ondo South senatorial district has the much needed potential in terms of mineral and natural resources to thrive but the district lacks the human resources needed to harness the various potentials and resources available in the senatorial district for immense economic gains. According to him: “God has blessed our land in abundance, what we have deposited in our lands are things that can sustain generations after generations. However, it is quite pathetic to note that we lack a credible and qualified human resources to properly harness what we have for the benefit of our people.” He also reiterated the need for the people to have a critical rethink about the nature and caliber of candidates they are electing into public positions in the country. “If the leadership is right, things will change for the better. It takes a leader who is not only willing to serve but one who is intellectually sound, proactive with a proven track record in governance and administration. Oyewumi also revealed that as the Chief Executive Officer of ONDIPA, he was able to drive more investment into the state because he is very passionate about the economic development of the state. He further added that with his input at the Senate, the Federal Government will finally give the final license which will set the Ondo Seaport running, a project which he described will be the game changer for the people. Oyewumi also assured the people of his readiness to pull necessary strings which will see to it that electricity is restored back to the region after decades of blackouts. In his remarks, the Publicity Secretary of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Mr. Alex Kalejaiye, identified the need for the people to elect a man like Oyewumi who he assured will give policies that will advance the cause of the people a proper legislative backing in the Senate. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.