Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), has disclosed its plans to commence demolition of illegal structures in Utako and parts of Gwarinpa waterway areas of the territory tomorrow, Wednesday, March 16, 2022. The Director, Development Control, Tpl Muktar Galadima disclosed this in Abuja during a sensitisation exercise, adding that the department remained committed to maintaining the original design of the Abuja master plan, by ridding the city of illegal structures that are capable of defacing the nation’s capital. He explained that the Utako area had been recently marked for demolition, which he further said would be demolished and handed over to the Nigerian Police to build its Utako Police station. He also revealed that the concern to the department is the rate of illegal developments around waters ways in Gwarinpa corner shops. According to Galadima, “The reason why we have to visit Utako again is that the police force have a plot there that is about 2 hectares and they have submitted their design to develop the place and we processed the plan and granted approval to them to commence development and we were involved in the process of negotiation and compensation of the people that were affected but thought it wise that it would be important to sensitize the people occupying the area so it will not be some sort of coronation and that is we said it important to meet with the people and explained to them about our intention to demolish the area tomorrow. “We are following due process the owners of the plot have submitted their plan and we have approved it so now they want to commence development. “There was an understanding between the police force and the Indigenous Communities and FCT administration in this context the Development Control. Within the process of developing some of the indigenous houses will be affected and we have to meet with them and resolve that some of them can stay with their kids and kinsman, while that can find else will look at how the police force can accommodate them in such places. “We have marked those structures already and we intend to move there by tomorrow Wednesday and Thursday. “One of our major objectives as the government is to ensure the citizens of the territory of their safety and project their wellbeing also. Looking at that place we will see that there’s a stream channel that is gradually being constructed by the corner shops and in liaising with the federal housing authority we went there today to sensitize the people that this development can not be accepted because it is constituting a natural stooge channel and it is an illegal development because the owner of the plot from the federal housing authority has written to us to come and partner with them to see how to clear the nuisance with the Gwarinpa estate. “They do not need any compensation and they about 35 structures to be demolition and we have served them notice,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity