Days back, some associates of former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu were hosted to a private screening of his soon-to-be-released biopic, ‘Last Man Standing’ in Abuja, a film by Seun Oloketuyi, who is also the convener of Best Of Nollywood (BON) awards. The screening had personalities and political big wigs like the former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Governor Dapo Abiodun and a few other political associates of the former governor. Speaking on the event, Oloketuyi explained that the private screening was not part of the original plan. “We had planned to simply hold a premiere at the end of March, but a lot of things informed this private screening. First was the fact that people were talking about the movie a lot and both cast and crew were worried that the film may be misinterpreted, misrepresented or even maligned before it was made public. We also needed to be sure that we had gotten things right. Based on the remarks I got from Asiwaju’s close associates, people who know him well, have worked with him and can tell you facts about his life. I think we have done a good thing that we can be proud of.” He added that, “As I said before, the movie is not a political material but a record of facts in history. I think people are getting tired of watching only feel-good movies, drama, comedy, and other genres. As an industry, we are now waking up to our responsibilities as gatekeepers of history like the bards of old. Asides from entertaining, we are learning to make movies that matter, and ‘Last Man Standing’ is one of them. “At the point of scriptwriting, we had problems because a lot of people could not even remember key events from Asiwaju Tinubu’s tenure as Lagos governor. That is rather sad and these are things we are trying to correct through film documentation. “The personalities we had at the private screening understood what we are trying to do, and I am glad that they found the movie both factual and entertaining. I believe that when people watch the movie with an open mind, they would feel the same way.” ‘Last Man Standing’ is directed by Tunde Laoye with cast that includes Lateef Adedimeji, Gbenga Adeyinka, Jide Kosoko, Madam Kofo, Shushu Abubakar, Sam Olatunji and many others. Oloketuyi had further revealed that his outfit is set to make a number of historically relevant movies, including one for the late Lamidi Adedibu, Alhaji Lateef Jakande and Professor Peller, all within the next one year.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team