There was confusion on Wednesday after as a tanker, loaded with 33,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit, popularly known as petrol exploded in the Alakara area of Mushin in Lagos State. Parts of the filling station, a 3 storey building and the tanker were burnt in the afternoon incident, while scores of people escaped death. It was gathered that the driver of the tanker was trying to discharge the content of his tanker into one of the wells at the filling station when the explosion started. The director of the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, Margaret Adeseye confirmed the fire incident in a statement signed by her on Wednesday afternoon. Mrs Adeseye said, “The Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service is attending to a Fire outbreak at Alakara Bus Stop, Idi Oro, Mushin, Lagos.” “The Fire which was received at 13:17 hrs, saw the Agency mobilizing other emergency responders of the state to put up concerted efforts in combatting the inferno.” She also added that ” Preliminary investigation revealed that it was a 33,000 litres tanker that, fully laden with Premium Motor Spirit, otherwise known as Petrol which came to service Mobil Petroleum Filling Station that went on Flame.” The Lagos fire agency boss assured that “Although the cause of the disaster is yet to be ascertained, Officials of Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service remain on top of the situation and will provide necessary updates as situation demands.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Tanker explodes at Lagos  Tanker explodes at Lagos Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Tanker explodes at Lagos  Tanker explodes at Lagos ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more