The Orodje of Okpe Kingdom, Felix Mujakperuo Orhue I, has urged the executive members of the Delta State Forum of Kingdom, Clans/Communities President-Generals to admonish parents to discourage their children from examination malpractices. The traditional ruler spoke when the Delta State Forum of Kingdom, Clans/Communities President-Generals paid him a visit at his palace in Orerokpe, Okpe Local Government Area of the state. The royal father, who expressed concern at the level of examination malpractices among students in the country, observed that Deltans sought admissions in other states bearing different names. He said parents now encourage their children to pay for “miracle centres.” He said: “You are destroying the future of those children and of the state. People don’t want to read again. “In our days, there was no light. We used lantern to read and write exams. Now, there are lights. People want free money and there is no free money anywhere. “It will come to a stage in this country when you look for ordinary school certificate to be chairman of local government, you won’t get it because students are now venturing in Yahoo-Plus and free money. We need to talk to our children.” The Orodje urged the Delta State Forum of Kingdom, Clans/Communities President-Generals to take the security of their respective communities serious, just as he urged them to create a sub-committee within the forum. He said the Forum needed to be security conscious with a view to be their brothers’ keeper, stressing that “some of us who are seeing crisis, when it comes know, it is a serious matter. We need to be security conscious to defend ourselves if the government cannot defend us.” The Orodje stated that Fulani herdsmen had made it difficult for people to go to their farms. “If we cannot go to farm, you will be hungry.” The Orodje also said the activities of some of the president-generals are inimical to that of their traditional rulers in the various kingdoms. He said some of the President-Generals instigate crisis and chase away their kings with their palaces burnt down. While urging them to respect their traditional and royal stools, the Orodje said,”if you don’t respect your elders, your own children will not respect you.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details