The Federal Government has said it will declare open the 2022 science technology and innovation expo next week to bring together Nigerian researchers, inventors, entrepreneurs and the organised private sector. Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu disclosed that the expo is not a trade fair for finished goods but a platform to show Nigerians what has been produced in the laboratories by Nigerians. The Minister disclosed this at a press conference organised to announce the commencement of the expo, which will take place from the 14th-18th of March 2022. According to Ogbonnaya: “For the expo, Mr President is the special guest of honour, apart from declaring the event open, he will be expected to receive the best three Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award recipients, launch the science television and the 2022 revised science, technology and innovation policy. “The expo provides an opportunity to bring together researchers, inventors and entrepreneurs to interact with investors who can turn research findings into products and services. This is what the country needs at the moment, to ensure that research findings do not just remain on the shelves or as papers in the universities but used to create jobs. “The expo is not a trade fair for finished goods but provides a platform to showcase what has been produced in our laboratories.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FG plans expo  FG plans expo Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FG plans expo  FG plans expo ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more