Twelve people on early Saturday morning are said to have been burnt to death in a multiple fatal auto accident along the Ilorin-Ogbomoso expressway in Kwara State. Tribune Online gathered that the accident happened at about 6:47 am at the Otte community in the Asa local government area of Kwara state, located along the expressway. A total number of 18 people were said to have been involved in the auto crash, while 12 of the victims were reportedly burnt beyond recognition. Six of the survived victims reportedly suffered varying degrees of burns. It was also gathered that the causes of the crash were route violation, speed violation and loss of control. The two vehicles involved in the crash included a white colour commercial Toyota Hummer bus with no registration number and a white colour commercial DAF Volvo trailer. According to information provided by the state sector commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Jonathan Owoade, he said that no First Aid treatment could be administered on the victims, adding that the surviving burnt victims had been taken to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH). Also, the state Fire Service account if the crash said that the trailer involved in the accident was a Dangote trailer, fully loaded with bags of cement. According to the Public Relations Officer of the Fire Service,Hakeem Adekunle, “one of the survived victims told firemen that the Toyota bus took off from Lagos and was heading to Sokoto state. “Therefore, The Director, Kwara State Fire Service, Prince Falade John Olumuyiwa, urged drivers to be more careful with their driving styles especially when carrying passengers. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more