The Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on Tuesday, commissioned Jaiz Bank Branch in Akure, urging everyone to patronise the Bank as it’s meant for both Muslims and non-Muslims. He said the coming of the premier non-interest bank in Nigeria to Ondo would open the doors for all to enjoy non-interest financing. The governor said: “The Bank is not for Muslims alone. I am not a Muslim. In fact, I am the Chancellor of my own church and I am going to have an account in the state. “Over the last five years, we have made efforts to bring development to the state and today we are bringing in Jaiz Bank to the state. The state is underbanked. We need more.” He urged civil servants in the state to transfer their salary accounts to Jaiz Bank so that they can take advantage of Jaiz Bank’s mortgage facility. “There is no bank where you can get facility just after six months, Jaiz did this and I can say that if not the 8th then it is the 9th wonders of the world.” In his speech, the Managing Director of the Bank Mr Hassan Usman thanked the governor for his support towards the establishment of the Bank in Ondo State, while acknowledging the support of the governor in creating the enabling environment for investments to strive in the State for the benefit of the people. The MD noted that since Jaiz Bank commenced operations in 2012, it has been providing ethical services to individuals, corporate and government entities with the mission of Making Life Better Through Ethical Finance. “Since its debut, exactly a decade ago, the Nation’s premier Non-Interest Bank has maintained its leadership role by deepening this alternative model of financing, thus providing the foundation for its expansion, and providing the needed ethical funding for infrastructural development in the country. “Within this period, the Bank has won notable international and local accolades, amongst which are the Most Improved Islamic Banking awards in 2020 and 2021, respectively, from the Global Islamic Finance Awards (GIFA).” Speaking on the mission of the Bank which is Making Life Better Through Ethical Finance, the MD said Jaiz Bank is well-positioned to partner with MSMEs in various sectors of the economy in the State while noting that the Bank’s expertise/experience in the last ten years in financing Agriculture, trading, oil & gas, export, educational sector, real estate, and a host of others would be brought to bear in supporting all and sundry in the State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity