The House of Representatives, on Tuesday, called on Federal Government to investigate the recent terrorist attack at the Kaduna International Airport, Kaduna State. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Chairman, House Committee on Aviation, Hon Nnolim Nnaji. In his lead debate, Hon Nnaji who expressed grave concern over the insecurity challenges in the State recalled that about a year ago, armed bandits attacked the staff quarters of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), at the Kaduna International Airport and abducted about 12 persons. “The House notes that on Friday, March 25, 2022, there was a horrific armed banditry attack at the Kaduna International Airport, culminating in the death of a security guard of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). “The House observes that a combined detachment of the military and other security agencies were deployed to the airport to confront the heavily armed bandits, numbering over a hundred. “The House further observes that the military personnel at the airport were timed enough to repel the attack, chased away the bandits and seized some of their motorcycles. “The House acknowledged that unauthorised persons have been using the route behind the perimeter fence of the airport, until the recent attack, which unfortunately resulted in the loss of life. “The House is cognizant that the Managing Director of NAMA, Matthew Pwajok, noted that, though the bandits attacked the navigational aids in the airport, killed the watchman while the technical staff ran for safety, the military were alerted and they responded swiftly to secure lives and properties at the airport. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The House is concerned that the armed banditry attacks at Kaduna International Airport may escalate to other airports across the country, if not checkmated. “The House is worried that no one is safe to travel by air if positive steps are not taking urgently to safeguard our airports from banditry attacks, considering the international standards on airport security management as outlined by International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO),” he noted. In the bid to forestall the recurring cases of attacks on other airports, the House urged Federal Government through the National Security Adviser (NSA), Chief of Defense Staff, the Inspector General of Police and heads of other security agencies, to holistically intervene by setting up a Special Security task Force on Airports across the country. The House also directed the Federal Ministry of Aviation, FAAN and other security agencies to put in place a more proactive measure in securing our airports, including viding modern security surveillance equipment on the perimeter es in all our airports. To this end, the House mandated the leadership of the House and Chairmen of relevant Committees in the House to invite all the Heads of security agencies, the Minister for Aviation, Heads of Aviation agencies for an urgent meeting to tackle the current crises at our airports. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details