A public university in the holy city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia, Umm Al-Qura University, has commended the Asiwaju Adinni of Oyo State, Alhaji Mutiullah Oladejo, popularly known as Onimalu, for his contributions to the promotion of Islam and Arabic and Islamic education in Nigeria and beyond. The Dean of the Institute of Arabic Language for Non-Native Speakers at the university, Sheikh Dr Hassan bin Abdul Hameed Bukhari, gave this commendation when he led a team from the university on a courtesy visit to Oladejo at his residence in Ibadan, Oyo State. The delegation, which also comprised Dr Aeman Al-Gamdy and other officials, during the visit, presented the Muslim leader with an “Award of Recognition” from the university. Dr Bukhari, who presented the plaque to Oladejo, said the award was in recognition of his “outstanding” contributions to da’wah not only in Nigeria but also in the Diaspora, especially in the area of financial assistance for students of the university in Mecca and other university students in Medina. Dr Al-Gamdy, in a remark, expressed gratitude to Onimalu for the generous reception he accorded them during their stay in Nigeria, saying nothing short of such a gesture would be extended to him as well whenever he visited Saudi Arabia. Oladejo expressed gratitude to the university for the award and pledged to do more to aid the cause of Allah. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Saudi varsity honours Oladejo  Saudi varsity honours Oladejo Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Saudi varsity honours Oladejo  Saudi varsity honours Oladejo ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more