BARRING any last minute changes, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is set to validate some former chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as its key national officers to administer Buhari House, its national secretariat. The much-anticipated APC national convention will hold today at the Eagle Square, Abuja, where the new National Working Committee to administer the party ahead of the next general elections will emerge. Saturday Tribune checks revealed that despite pockets of resistance from certain aspirants for the position of national chairman and governors sympathetic to their cause, a former Nasarawa State governor on the platform of the PDP and senator representing Nasarawa West, Abdullahi Adamu, is top on the ‘unity list’ to be ratified today. Adamu was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the PDP before he joined his colleagues in the New PDP after abandoning the former ruling party on the eve of the 2015 general elections for the APC when the latter was the main opposition party. Another former chieftain of the PDP to emerge as the Deputy National Chairman (South) of the APC is former Senate President (2005-2007), Ken Nnamani. He represented Enugu East Senatorial district on the platform of the PDP. Senator Iyiola Omisore, another former chieftain of the PDP, is penciled in for the office of the National Secretary which has been zoned to the South West. There is, however, a last minute move by chieftains of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) to remove Omisore from the unity list and replace him with a former chieftain of the defunct CPC, Ife Oyedele from Ondo State. Other former chieftains of the PDP to clinch strategic positions in the APC-NWC are Isaac Kekemeke and Victor Giadom. In the list, prepared by zonal stakeholders in the SouthSouth and South-West, Kekemeke will be ‘elected’ as Deputy National Vice Chairman (South-West) while Giadom is to be named the National Vice Chairman (South-South). Giadom and his ally, two-term former Rivers State governor and incumbent Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, dumped the PDP for the APC on the eve of the 2015 general elections. Despite its boast that its candidates will emerge through consensus, it was learnt, the ruling party is wary of litigations that could trail its breach of the Electoral Act 2022. Section 82(3) of the Electoral Act 2022 makes clear provisions for the choice of aspirants for party offices through election. The section reads: “The election of members of the executive committee or other governing body of a political party, including the election to fill a vacant position in any of the aforesaid bodies, shall be conducted democratically and allowing for all members of the party or duly elected delegates to vote in support of a candidate of their choice.” Section 84(2) of the Act provides that “the procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct, indirect primaries or consensus.” Section 84(9) of the same Act further provides that “a political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate.” Speaking to newsmen on Friday at the APC national secretariat in Abuja, Nasarawa State governor and chairman of the media and publicity subcommittee, Abdullahi Sule, said the party would fall back on indirect primaries if consensus arrangement failed. He said: “Before you go into the convention, our first choice is always consensus. And we are still on that first choice. However, democracy, even our (APC) constitution and the constitution of Nigeria, demands that if that doesn’t work, we go ahead and look at the other options. But right now, that remains our option number one. “The issue of unity list, it will be ready today. You know, it will actually be submitted and somebody was asking whether it is for real. Yes, we are going to have unity list. If you are talking of consensus, you must have unity list, because that is the whole essence of consensus. You know, if you are having consensus, you are going to have people who have agreed, aspirants who have agreed, stakeholders who have agreed, and also the constituency that have agreed, and in that case, that name automatically will be adopted. And that’s just the meaning of the unity list. That’s how unity list is going to be put together.” Sule also made clarification on the last-minute pronouncements that political appointees of government are not eligible to vote. He disclosed that certain chieftains of the party who have served as lawmakers remained automatic delegates to the convention. “On the issue of political appointees, if you are a former president as a political appointee, if you have a former senator as a political appointee, these are already automatic delegates, you know, so let’s not confuse the two just because being an appointee doesn’t necessarily take you out of being a delegate, because our delegates are classified clearly. Former president on our party, former elected this, elected that, party officials and the rest of that. I don’t think anybody who holds any political party office is actually right now a political appointee of the president or the governors and the rest of that. “So, most of the list that we submitted, you know, if you are talking of the ones who have submitted now, we don’t have commissioners, we don’t have advisors, we don’t have all those unless if somebody particularly was a former this or former that, in that case, you know, just being an appointee doesn’t completely exclude such a person, you know, from being a delegate.”  Aspirant vows to fight on But a chairmanship aspirant, Saliu Mustapha, hinted that he would challenge the consensus arrangement at the Eagle Square today. In a statement, DirectorGeneral, Saliu Mustapha Campaign Organisation, Malam Bala Usman, said Mustapha would not submit himself to any imposition. “Indeed, we recognise consensus as one of APC’s acceptable leadership selection methods, which is completely legal and constitutional. However, we are convinced that for consensus to abide, it must be all-inclusive and devoid of any vestige of imposition,” Usman said. He said his principal was in touch with other aspirants smarting to demand for the conduct of an election rather than mere ratification of a list of favoured candidates. He said: “This is why Malam Saliu Mustapha, together with all the other aspirants, would continue to engage in order to review the options before them and agree on a common and mutually beneficial decision. Until this is done, nothing has been decided yet. “In the course of his campaigns for the office of the National Chairman of the APC, our candidate, our team as ably led by the Turaki of Ilorin has had close interactions with party members, supporters and well-wishers, who all share in his fervent desire to build the APC into a party that prioritises inclusion, fair reward system and a transparent internal democracy, all of which are the major pillars of his campaigns. “His aspiration to lead the party is on behalf of these categories of party members and stakeholders. He will therefore not take any decision without considering the deep hope and expectations that have been invested in him by these multitudes of members that spread all over the country. “While he will join other aspirants in the race to work out a most acceptable outcome in the larger interest of the party, we request that all his supporters and well-wishers remain calm. As it is the tradition in the Saliu Mustapha Campaign Organisation, the decision of what to do will be that of everyone involved, not just that of Turaki alone.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details