A woman has put pepper and pushed pepper a stick into a 12-year-old girl’s vagina for stealing garri and fish in Isiokolo, Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State. The incident occurred on Saturday just as the 12-year old girl who was identified simply as Igho and her blind mother were living with her aunt. The aunt identified as Mercy Oba, on noticing that her garri and fish were tampered with was said to have angrily walked into the young girl’s room, picked the food items and pounced on her. Igho’s cries were said to have attracted her blind mother who, in her sorry state, pleaded with her sister to stop the beatings. In spite of pleas from the mother of Igho who’s physically impaired, Aunty Mercy went further to put pepper and insert a stick into the young girl’s vagina which destroyed her hymen. A rights activist, Kelvin Ejumudo, who got wind of the cruelty, quickly led his colleagues to the scene to rescue the victim. Ejumudo, while disclosing the cruelty to journalists, said, “Mercy Oba is the sister to the blind woman. The blind woman’s daughter, Igho, went to her room and took garri and fish. “When the auntie met her in the room and asked ‘why are you stealing my food? Igho said they (herself and mother) were hungry. “She started beating the little girl. The blind mother managed to find her way down and pleaded for her to leave Igho, but she started to beat her too. “The next thing, she carried the little girl to her room, put pepper in her private part and drove a stick into her vagina. “People came and were holding her, but she threw their load outside, that they will no longer stay in the house. “The next thing, she said she would kill them and nothing would happen. “I got the distress call that she’s an Igbo woman, so she feels that her juju will protect her. She felt untouchable. “We swung into action and got her arrested. She was detained in our presence and medical care was given to the girl and her blind mother.” According to him, the doctor reported that the girl’s hymen has been broken because of the force the auntie used in driving the stick into her private part. He added that the matter will be charged to a court on Monday. Meanwhile, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the incident on Sunday, saying the aunt is cooling off her feet in police custody. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team