The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Dr Lekan Balogun, Alli Okunmade II has disclosed that henceforth he would be holding periodic meetings with all the Chieftancy title holders. Oba Balogun made this known while receiving in audience the Aare Akinrogun of Ibadanland and the incumbent Ambassador to the Benin Republic, Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai (rtd) in Alarere palace at the weekend. Speaking through his brother, Sen. Dr Kola Balogun, who led the team on the visit, the monarch said the periodic meetings could either be once or twice in a year to wine and dine together and ensure that the relationship between Ibadan and her chiefs is kept alive and active. Olubadan described the Chief of Army Staff when he became the Aare Akinrogun of Ibadanland as a dedicated and loyal Army General, adding that his appointment as an Ibadan Chief was not a mistake and prayed that his shadow would not grow less. Ambassador Buratai had earlier described the new Olubadan as a person whose name and personality preceded his enthronement as Olubadan owing to his philanthropic gestures, detribalised posture, politics and activism. The former COAS said the enthronement of Dr Balogun as the new Olubadan “is a well-deserved one for he has always been a man of honour with good poise and carriage that befits royalty. It is a divine call for you, Kabiyesi and you will always be divinely guided as you direct the affairs of Ibadan people, among whom I’m one as one of your Chiefs”. Congratulating the Ibadans for having Dr Balogun as their monarch, the retired Army General said all the attributes mentioned earlier would come into play during the reign of the new king. Accompanied by Brig-Gen. S.K. Usman (rtd), Lt-Gen. Lamidi Adeosun among others promised to remain a loyal Chief to the monarch and Ibadanland by answering to his duties as the Aare Akinrogun of the ancient metropolis anytime the need arises. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more