It was a harvest of successes last Thursday and Friday as operatives of the Delta State Police Command rescued a kidnap victim, felled a robbery suspect, foiled cult initiation, arrested 13 suspects and recovered assorted arms and ammunition. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, made the disclosure in a statement made available to journalists on Monday. According to him, on February 25, 2022 at 2:00p.m, operatives of ‘B’ Division Warri Patrol-team, while acting on a tip-off, engaged a gang of robbers led by one wanted Getay in Warri in a gun duel. Getay, Edafe said, subsequently sustained lethal injuries and died in a hospital while a cut-to-size double barrel gun, one live cartridge and two expended cartridges were recovered from the scene. Edafe further disclosed that on February 24, at about 10:30p.m, operatives of Dragon 18 patrol team, while on routine stop-and-search duty along ECN/Otu-Jeremi Aladja road by Ewhrekekan junction, sighted a Mercedes Benz ML 350 and Lexus 350 parked by the road side. On close observation of the two vehicles, a kidnapped victim (name withheld), aged 62, raised the alarm that he had been kidnapped. The victim who was eventually rescued by the patrol team, explained that he was kidnapped at about 6:50p.m on that day at the entrance of his gate in Afisere road, Ughelli. The operatives, Edafe added, recovered one Mercedes Benz ML 350 black colour with Registration Number EKY 964 DP belonging to the victim, and an AK-47 magazine loaded with eight rounds of  7.62 mm bullets. Operatives of Issele-Uku Division also foiled a cult initiation ceremony at Ukwu Nzu forest, while they arrested 13 suspects and recovered a locally-made double barrel shot gun, 25 live cartridges, a Toyota Corolla with Registration Number GRA 68 SG and a Lexus 350 SUV with Registration Number BDG 689 GQ. “To this end, the Commissioner of Police, Ari Muhammed Ali has ordered all Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers, Tactical Commanders and the Command’s Anti-cult Unit to identify cultists’ hideouts, carry out continuous raids, arrest and ensure that anyone found wanting be made to face the full wrath of the law,” DSP Edafe said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.