Soil Scientists have been charged by the Nigeria Institute of Soil Science (NISS) to demonstrate professional competence in good soil management for food security and sustainable agricultural production. NISS urged soil scientists to express professional opinions on issues related to soil science and indicate the adverse consequences to be expected if a sound scientific judgement is not followed. Professor Victor Chude, Registrar of the Institute, while speaking at the induction of registered soil scientists at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, urged them to refrain from allowing his/her name to be used by individuals and organisations of dubious character. Professor Chude urged them to report to NISS any person, organisations or enterprises involved in soil science activities without the supervision of a registered soil scientist. He said called on the soil scientists not to bring the Institute to disrepute by engaging in illegal business or operating with those so involved. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “A registered soil scientist shall collaborate with other soil scientists in enhancing the profession, promoting harmony and solidarity by exchanging and streaming information. “He or she should endeavour to offer the best services to clients and employers. Foster cordial relationships among colleagues and support them both collectively and individually against unjust professional treatment”, he added. Also, the President and Chairman of Council, NISS, Ayoade Ogunkunle, noted that the institute is saddled with the responsibility to establish and promote soil and fertiliser testing facilities to support farmers on efficient fertiliser use. He noted that the NISS which was established by Act No.126 of 2017 is primarily charged with the responsibility for regulating the profession of soil science in Nigeria, Ogunkunle said the vision is to be the foremost regulatory for soil science and agricultural practice in Nigeria that will improve the standard of living the people. He said: “Our mission is the regulation of practice of soil science for increased profitability to all stakeholders and guarantees improved soil management systems that will embrace environmental sustainability and ensure high agricultural productivity and food security in Nigeria.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NISS charges scientists on management of soil resources How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team