A political group in Osun State, Idera De Movement, has asked a gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Akin Ogunbiyi, to seek an alternative platform for the actualisation of his aspiration. The PDP in the state, it will be recalled, is embroiled in litigations, with factions holding parallel congresses throwing up Ademola Adeleke and Dotun Babayemi. Ogunbiyi, in the build-up of the primaries, had withdrawn his participation, alleging that the process had been skewed in favour of one of the aspirants, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Rising from a meeting held on Friday in Osogbo, the Idera De Movement, in a statement signed by its chairman, Lasisi Ismila Alani; secretary, Bayo Okunola and the public relations officer, Adebayo Akinola Bayo, along with field officers in all the local governments in Osun State, said the resolve to continue to support the aspirations of Ogunbiyi remains non-negotiable, even despite his withdrawal from the PDP primaries. The movement, which claimed it had been supporting Ogunbiyi’s aspiration since 2018, lamented that the PDP had the chance to provide alternative governance in place of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Unfortunately, the opportunity has been burgled by the greed and desperation of few leaders. The ongoing myriad of litigation within the PDP has robbed the party of voters’ goodwill and has made the party extremely toxic and dangerous. As a consequence, our safety and political future within the party is not guaranteed.” The group, therefore, enjoined Ogunbiyi to seek an alternative platform to realise his ambition as it also declared total commitment and loyalty to the aspirant. “We hereby affirm our willingness to go with him, including our followers, to wherever he decides to move to. These decisions were taken after due consultation with our family, leaders and followers in various local government areas of Osun State,” the statement read. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Seek alternative platform  Seek alternative platform Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Seek alternative platform  Seek alternative platform ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team