Three persons have been remanded for two weeks in a Benin Correctional Centre over the invasion and destruction of Christ Embassy Church in the Edo State capital. Besides, the suspects were also alleged to have unlawfully assaulted Pastor Godfrey Esiegbe, Chief Superintendent of Police Clement Aikpokpo and Desmond Apebeen. The suspects, Mr Sunny Ibude, 50; Monday Osabohien, 42; and Godspower Igbinosun, 36 were docked Thursday before Justice Efe of Benin Criminal Court One on a 12-count charge. The trio and others now at large were alleged to have between February 18 to March 10, in a manner likely to cause a breach of peace, unlawfully entered into Loveworld Crusade Ground also known as Christ Embassy, Km 10, Benin-Sapele Road, measuring 217,565 hectares covered by Certificate of Occupancy No. EDSR 16894 dated January 25, 2010. In Charge No. B/CO/545M/2022 between the Commissioner of Police and the three defendants, the accused who were also docked with possession of firearms were charged with attempting to promote native war. According to Mr I.E. Ekibade of the Legal/prosecution section of the State Criminal Department, Benin, Ibude, Osabohien and Igbinosun are also accused of willful and unlawful damage of building fences valued at N5 million, belonging to Christ Embassy. The case has been adjourned to March 29 for mention. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Three persons remanded  Three persons remanded Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Three persons remanded  Three persons remanded ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more