The Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Association (COMTUA) has expressed its readiness to partner with the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Gani Adams, to stop various means of extortion by hoodlums at Apapa ports, which he said had put business activities of members under threat, leading to loss of lives and property worth billions of naira. The group has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a security company, Zeus Eye Security Limited, to end extortion of its members by hoodlums. Chairman of COMTUA, Yinka Aroyewun, expressed gratitude to Iba Adams for his support, saying his members had really suffered a lot due to extortion by hoodlums and non-state actors. “I am so glad to witness a day like this. My union has really suffered a lot from extortion and it is high time we put a stop to this. Our members have been experiencing revenue shortage in the name of paying unwanted bills on highways. We have complained to various authorities but all yielded negative result. “Due to this, we decided to seek the intervention of Gani Adams and cemented an agreement with Zeus Eye Security Limited. With this, I am confident we are on the right track to lift COMTUA to an enviable height,” he said. Speaking further, Aroyewun lamented that the union had lost many of its members, recalling sadly that about five people also died last Saturday due to activities of area boys, whom, he said forcefully collected illegal fees from members at various illegal checkpoints. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Between Amuwo-Odofin and Apapa Local Government, we have 60 checkpoints, manned by hoodlums, manned by non-state actors for the purpose of extortion, and for the purpose of causing chaos and vandalism,” he added. The Yoruba generalissimo, who is also the patron of COMTUA, however, disclosed that the security company is billed to serve as shield for members of the union from unwarranted harassments from hoodlums and area boys, saying that the body would collaborate with other security agencies in the state, and would commence operation with 200 well-trained men and 50 motorbikes, while 1,000 officers and men are being projected for it when fully operational. Iba Gani Adams said, “This is an association that transports 80 per cent of goods and cargoes on our roads to various destinations in the country. We realise we are having various threats from hoodlums and others, including area boys, collecting illegal dues from the truck drivers. “Some of the hoodlums also tamper with engines of their vehicles. The executive body of the union came to me for assistance. I said OPC cannot do it. You need a security company duly registered to partner with you to do this.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details