IN many countries, cigarette packs now come with both graphic and text health warnings to smokers on the health risks associated with their consumption. However,have these warnings deterred smoking?  For people who smoke, quitting remains the best option to avoid the health risks associated with tobacco consumption and non-smokers are advised to never pick up the habit.  The health risks that smokers face come from the many toxic substances contained in cigarette smoke when the cigarettes are burned and not the nicotine that they crave from the cigarette. This is why the scientist Michael Russellfamously quoted that “people smoke for nicotine but die from the tar. ”An understanding of the need to reduce the health impact of inhaling the noxious fumes contained in burning tobacco and the pragmatic acceptance of providing reduced risk alternatives for those who cannot quit are some of the raisons d’êtrefor the concept of tobacco harm reduction (THR). Science has also continued to lend credence to THR as an effective means of reducing the health impact of tobacco consumption and several countries now have science-backed policies for the regulation of reduced risks or alternative tobacco products. In October 2021, 100 specialists in nicotine science, policy and practice came together to call on the 182 parties (countries) to the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to take a more positive stance on tobacco harm reduction. The letter which was a push back against WHO’s drive for the prohibition or excessive regulation and taxation of vaping products, heated and smokeless tobacco products, was signed by the 100 experts as reported by The Counterfactual by Clive Bates. While developing and less developed economies seem more aligned with this WHO stand, developed economies have taken the science-led approach. For example, the United States of America’s (USA) food and drug administration (FDA) has licensed some alternative products as “modified risk tobacco products” in acceptance of the science and empirical evidence of their efficacy. This science-basedapproach to THR, is a public health strategy to reduce the health impact of consuming combustible tobacco products. In the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence(NICE), which issues evidence-based guidance on the most effective methods of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and ill health,has since published aguidance on tobacco harm reduction. The guidance supports the use of licensed nicotine containing products (NCPs) to help smokers not currently able to quit to switch to a less harmful option but instructively recognizes that quitting smoking is always the best option for smokers. As a public health strategy, in December 2021, the Daily Mail published reports from the Office of National Statistics that showed smoking rates in Britain dropped by 1.3 per cent, from 15.8 per cent in 2019 to 14.5 per cent in 2020. The introduction of alternative products and acceptance of THR have also driven down smoking rates in Japan by up to 34 per cent as reported by Frost &Sullivanin a December 2020 report. The Canadian Public Health Association, also in recognition of the efficacy of THR in 2018, issued statements that acknowledge that alternative nicotine delivery products are less risky than combustible tobacco. Health Canada has issued science-backed statements such as “Completely replacing cigarette smoking with vaping will reduce your exposure to harmful chemicals” among several others to drive the adoption of alternative products by smokers. In New Zealand, the ministry of health launched a website called Vaping Facts to educate citizens on the facts about vaping with the objective to help smokers quit. The website encourages smokers to vape as a means to quit and has widely published content that indicates that vaping is less risky than smoking. In Nigeria, however and across the West and Central Africa region, the knowledge and acceptance of tobacco harm reduction as a public health strategy is remarkably low. If Nigeria opts for a rigorous science-based approach to the adoption of THR and proceeds to foster an environment where proper knowledge of the health benefits of switching to reduced-risk alternatives is consciously and strategically made available to current smokers, the country will invariably experience a drop in smoking rates.  The logic holds true thatso long as the alternative products from THR separate tobacco consumers from the source of risk, then they not only reduce the risk of harm but also reduce the smoking rates. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.