Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) has flagged off a training programme for 690 youths in Kwara State aimed at transforming, making the youth self-reliant in selected skills. Speaking at the event tagged, HYPPADEC Youth Transformation Programme in Ilorin, on Tuesday, the managing director/CEO of the commission, Abubakar Yelwa, said that a total number of 5,000 youth were selected from the six HYPPADEC states of Kwara, Kogi, Kebbi, Benue, Plateau and Niger to be trained twice in a year. The HYPPADEC boss, who said that the training programme would have between three to six months duration, depending on the type of skills chosen, added that beneficiaries were allowed to select skills of their choice. He also said that beneficiaries would enjoy a monthly stipend of N15,000 based on regular attendance, attention during training and seriousness exhibited. Also speaking, the state coordinator of the commission, Hajia Alhassan Hajara Ndaman, said the programme was created with a view of reducing number of teeming unemployed youths from member states of the commission so that they become useful members of the society. “The Youth population is an asset of a nation. They are the factor of national power that, if rightly utilised, can lead a country to the heights of glory and prosperity. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The youths of our country are no less talented than the youths of foreign nations, and they can make our country shine globally if they are properly nurtured; then our country will be built on the firm foundation of their abilities, attitudes and behaviours. “Therefore, I will encourage all the successful youths to use this opportunity well. Furthermore, I will ask we all come to create a better world for all of us by harnessing the biggest treasure we all have,” she said. She also thanked the traditional rulers in the HYPPADEC’s catchment areas for their support for the establishment and the eventual take-off of the commission. Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, represented by a Permanent Secretary, Sabitiyu Grillo, said the programme aimed to improve the standard and well being of youth, urging the beneficiaries to make use of the knowledge garnered during the training programme. The governor, who said that the scheme is meant to give youth the opportunity to be self-reliant rather than job seekers, added that the opportunities therein could make them employers of labour and reduce the rate of unemployment. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs HYPPADEC flags off vocational training programme for 690 Kwara youths Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa HYPPADEC flags off vocational training programme for 690 Kwara youths ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details