The police in Lagos State are on the trail of sponsors of the abductors of school children in different parts of Lagos State. Eagle-eyed residents of Omole Estate on Monday arrested Temitayo Olafisoye, while his accomplice, Kayode Akinola escaped during a failed attempt to abduct some school children. Operatives of the State Criminal Investigations Department (SCID), Panti, have taken over the investigations and are expected to storm Ibadan, Oyo State, where the arrested suspect operated from. The arrested suspect confessed to have abducted school children at Ikotun, Berger, Iyana Ipaja, Iyana Iba and other parts of Lagos State. A source at SCID, Panti, who spoke with the Nigerian Tribune, under the condition of anonymity said, “Our men are expected to storm Ibadan any moment from now. “The suspect has been transferred here and he has been cooperating with the police. We will liaise with the Oyo State Police Command on how to track other members of the state.” The image maker in charge of the state police command, Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed to the Nigerian Tribune  that “the suspect has been transferred to the State CID, Panti.” Hundeyin said, “I can tell you that Investigations are ongoing. I can’t confirm the number of children that have been abducted by the gang, but our men are investigating the matter.” The police image maker added that “What I want to assure you is that we will get to the root of the matter and arrest those who were involved.”  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details