The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Board Chairman, Mrs Ronke Sokefun, has stressed the need for women in leadership positions to encourage other women to join the table in order to grow the number of women in management positions and consequently ensure its sustainability. Mrs Sokefun made the call in her keynote address at the NDIC’s commemoration of the 2022 International Women’s Day in Abuja with the theme: “Changing Climates: Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow.” The NDIC Chair said while more women are making an impact in every sphere of society, it is critical to developing strategies to sustain and increase the rise of women to leadership positions. She called for more encouragement by those already in positions as well as the need for capacity development and robust networking to strengthen the ability to contribute their best based on merit and performance. The NDIC Board Chairman lauded the current 33.9 per cent women population in the Corporation’s manpower structure, stressing that the push was to achieve a higher proportion in the nearest future. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She told NDIC female staff that they would be pulled up when they demonstrate readiness for that next role; therefore, they needed to keep evolving. In his goodwill message, the Managing Director of NDIC, Mr Bello Hassan who was represented by the Executive Director, Corporate Services, Mrs Emily Osuji, described the Corporation’s female staff as a great asset to the Corporation as they continue to demonstrate all the values of the Corporation such as professionalism and passion towards achieving the Corporation’s mandate. Mrs Osuji said the Corporation’s management is extremely proud of her womenfolk who are well represented at all levels of the organisation. The Managing Director of First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Mrs Yemisi Edun, in her lecture, commended the Corporation for attaining a significant female representation within the NDIC workforce. She further called on women to find the confidence to speak up and take advantage of the opportunities to make a better future for themselves and their families. Also, she stressed the need for women to stand up for their rights and help in breaking the bias. Bashir A. Nuhu, Director, Communication & Public Affairs Department of the NDIC said in a statement that the event featured a lead presentation by MD/CEO, FCMB, Mrs Yemisi Edun, panel session and a master class in which other accomplished resource persons featured. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team