The Lenten season is a solemn period for Christians, especially those who belong to the orthodox denominations, during which they commemorate the 40 days that Jesus spent fasting in the wilderness, according to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, before beginning his ministry. A significant event that kick-starts the season is the Ash Wednesday which was widely observed by many orthodox Christians penultimate Wednesday in preparation for Christianity’s most solemn feast of Easter, which symbolizes Jesus Christ’s glorious ‎resurrection following His passion and crucifixion. The putting of ash on the forehead of the faithful on Ash Wednesday is a symbol of repentance, reminding them of man’s sinfulness before God and his mortality. The priest who imposes the ash says, “Remember, Man is dust, and unto dust you shall return.” Lent is observed in the Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, Lutheran, Methodist, Moravian, Oriental Orthodox, Reformed (including Presbyterian and Congregationalist), United Protestant and Roman Catholic Churches. Some Anabaptist, Baptist and nondenominational Christian churches also observe Lent. It is also a period of grief that necessarily ends with a great celebration of Easter. The purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer for Easter through prayer, mortifying the flesh, repentance of sins, almsgiving, simple living, and self-denial. During Lent, many Christians commit to fasting, as well as giving up certain luxuries in imitation of Jesus Christ’s sacrifice during his journey into the wilderness for 40 days; this is known as one’s Lenten sacrifice. Many Christians also add a Lenten spiritual discipline such as reading a daily devotional or praying through a Lenten calendar, to draw themselves near to God. Often observed are the Stations of the Cross, a devotional commemoration of Christ’s carrying the Cross and crucifixion. Many churches remove flowers from their altars and veil crucifixes, religious statues that show the triumphant Christ and other elaborate religious symbols in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event. In most denominations, the last week of Lent coincides with Holy Week, starting with Palm Sunday. Following the New Testament narrative, Jesus’ crucifixion is commemorated on Good Friday, and at the beginning of the following week the joyful celebration of Easter Sunday, the start of the Easter season, which recalls the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. In some Christian denominations, Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday form the Easter Triduum. Speaking on the significance of the Lenten period, Catholic Bishop of Oyo diocese, Bishop Emmanuel Badejo, noted that “The Lent speaks to the relationship between Jesus Christ and Christians, which should really be that of friendship and authentic love. By this logic, those who do not celebrate lent in prayer, almsgiving, self-denial and fasting surely have a very different understanding of Jesus and their relationship with him. They will, themselves, give account for their faith or lack of it on judgment day. “Christians simply cannot be taking only what is pleasant in Christianity like pleasure and prosperity and leaving aside the salvific suffering, fasting and prayer part. To do so is to empty Christianity of its authentic power and identity. One could ask: ‘If we celebrate only Christ’s glory and victory, how can we participate in his mission and salvation? Our world is not yet perfect, so the friends of Jesus need to constantly make themselves better and partake in his mission of making the world a better place conversion of sinners and saving souls,” he added. Badejo also stressed that Lent is a period of renewal, retreat and spiritual rehabilitation which everybody needs. Such a period is always helpful as the New Year begins. Permanent pleasure and fun corrode the soul and spirit. He added that it is a period of reconciliation since, “wherever we live and relate with others, we are bound to offend or hurt each other. That is the reason for the message of Prophet Isaiah: ‘Come let us talk together. Though your sins are as scarlet they shall be white as snow…’ (Isaiah 1: 18). “Nigeria needs so much of that today in order to reduce wickedness, injustice, anger, conflict and bloodshed in our nation. We must take better care of the poor and needy. We must repent and change our ways for the better and so be made ready for our salvation. That is the purpose of the period of Lent,” he said. Also Catholic Bishops in Nigeria’s Onitsha Ecclesiastical Province called on Christian across the country to pray the Holy Rosary “daily and faithfully” throughout the Lenten season imploring for peace in the Southeastern part of the country. In a statement signed by the Local Ordinaries of Onitsha Archdiocese and the Dioceses of Ekwulobia, Enugu, Awka, Abakaliki, Awgu, Nnewi and Nsukka, they lamented that South-Eastern Nigeria which is covered by their Ecclesiastical See “has become a theatre of ungodly and wanton destruction of life and property. “We appeal to all as individuals, families, associations, Parishes to say their rosaries daily and faithfully within this period of Lent in order that this cloud of bloodletting hanging over our region will collapse like the walls of Jericho,” the Catholic Bishops said. They express their fear for “forces of darkness and death’ that seem to have cast their shadows over the Southeastern part of the country and which may lead to the loss faith in God and hope in man. We also urge people to pray for peace and security in the West African country throughout the Lenten Season,” the statement stated further. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team