THE Muslim Community of Oyo State (MUSCOYS) has announced its resolve to mobilise Muslims in the state towards ensuring the emergence of a Muslim from the south as the next president of Nigeria in 2023 This was contained in a communique after a stakeholders meeting held on Sunday at the Bodija Estate Islamic Centre, Bodija, Ibadan. According to the communique, signed by the chairman, Alhaji Ishaq Kunle Sanni and Secretary-General, Alhaji Murisiku Abidemi Siyanbade, the purpose of the meeting was to review the state of the nation, especially the matter of the 2023 general elections. It recalled recent statements credited to some Christian leaders indicating their disapproval for a Muslim succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari and their determination to produce a Christian president in 2023. But the stakeholders at the MUSCOYS meeting claimed that since Nigeria got independence in 1960, no Muslim from southern Nigeria has occupied the position of president or vice president. From the foregoing, they said it was time for a southern Muslim president. The communique reads in part: “The meeting resolved to mobilise Muslims in Oyo State to ensure that a Muslim from the south emerges as President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. “He who must come to equity let him come with clean hands. We hereby plead with PFN [Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria], CAN [Christian Association of Nigeria] and other Christian groups to join hands with us in the spirit of equity, justice and fear of God in ensuring that a southern Muslim becomes the next president of Nigeria “On our own, we will mobilise Muslims in Oyo State and beyond towards the emergence of a southern Muslim president, through physical efforts and supplications to Almighty Allah.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.