As the 80th birthday celebration of the music legend, Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi commenced with a special praise and prayer altar by his church, Decross Gospel Mission, on Friday, gospel ministers, including Adeke Gold, Yetunde Obanla and Ayorinde, have taken the celebration of the music legend to new heights. One of the famous fans of the music legend and a business mogul, Chief Olayinka Fasuyi, has also promised that no stone will be left unturned to give the Chief Commander, as he is fondly called, a world-class celebration. Fasuyi, who is the owner of Ibadan Business School (IBS) and conglomerate disclosed that Obey deserved to be celebrated as he steps into the class of octogenarians, especially due to his influence in the entertainment industry and social life generally for over six decades. He described Obey as an extraordinary person and a prophet who has used music positively to impact people’s lives, adding: “Chief Commander deserves all accolades for his 80th birthday celebration and I want all and sundry to accord him a super celebration at 80 because he has done well for humanity, people, his country and beyond. Chief Commander has retained his very good name. The Lord Almighty will preserve you and make you experience more fruitful years, amen.” Speaking on his relationship with Obey, Fasuyi noted that he had been a fan of the music icon over the years, precisely when Obey released the Board Members album in 1972, when he was in Class 4, at Ilesha Grammar school. “As of then, amongst my colleagues – including former vice chancellors of the University of Ibadan, Professor Isaac Adewole, Professor Idowu Olayinka – as of 1972, I was referred to as a young millionaire in Ijeshaland; I was able to impact live then. I went to a particular place within Ilesha Township and I listened very carefully to the beautiful lyrics of Board Members. I was so moved by the way he sang people’s praises and I told God that I want to experience such and I thank God for answering my prayers,” he revealed. Chief Fasuyi said further: “Baba Obey and I have shared lots of memorable times. To the glory of God, myself and my friends have been privileged to have as friends the two great Juju musicians, King Sunny Ade and Baba Commander, who have consistently put their names and footprints in the hall of fame and to make other people happy.” He added that his bond with the Miliki King been interesting aside the fact that he is the Fasuyi dynasty band musician. He also noted that one of his unforgettable memories with Obey was when he prophesied that he would become the Asiwaju of Ijesland, which eventually came to pass on July 17, 2016, as I received a message from the palace of the paramount ruler of Ijeshaland, Owa Obokun Adimula, Oba (Dr) Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran II on his decision to install me as the Asiwaju of Ijeshaland, a honour which I gladly embraced and has added value to my status through the prophesy of a unique prophet. Speaking on the April 3 birthday celebration in Lagos and grand reception on April 8, in Abeokuta, Ogun State, for Obey at 80, Chief Fasuyi said that plans are in top gear to give the music legend a befitting celebration. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details