Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, has charged state governors to prioritise water supply in their respective states for maximal uses and economic benefit. The Minister said the sub-national government must tap into all the water projects located in their states or contiguous, to their states for the benefit of Nigerian citizens private and corporate who would need water for either or both domestic and industrial use. He said the Jigawa experience was an eye-opener where farmers who use water for irrigation purposes could increase economic activities by N30bn in the state. According to Adamu, the mandate of the Federal Government was to secure bulk water for the Nigerians people while states would tap into such water assets and distribute it to their respective users in the country. The Minister said this at his office in Abuja, where he interacted with journalists. According to him: “All this rice pyramid that you are seeing is related to the sufficient and efficient water supply for irrigation. “We went to Jigawa to hand over some sectors of Hadejia valley, Gario irrigation projects, a combined of about 8,000 hectares for irrigation. The Jigawa Governor made a mental calculation and said that translates to N30bn income a year in the state. “Gravity fed irrigation they do not need to buy pump or petrol. Go there you will see farming, you will see women cultivating tomatoes, pepper and you see the men doing rice. “The amount of income that is coming to households is huge,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Minister tasks state governments on water supply Minister tasks state governments on water supply ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details