A chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo North Senatorial District, Mr Sunny Ifijen, has thrown his weight behind the third term reelection bid of Senator Francis Alimikhena, saying the entire Owan East LGA of Edo State had endorsed the senator’s ambition. This was just as he said that the rumoured ambition of the former National Chairman of the paper and immediate past governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is belittling and advised the former labour leader to drop the bid. Ifijen who stated this in a statement he jointly signed with Mr Omeiza Ogumah and made available to newsmen in Benin on Sunday said that the decision was arrived at after careful analysis of those that had made their aspirations known to replace the senator. He noted that the people of Owan Federal Constituency would align themselves to the March 5, 2022 decision arrived at by the Akoko-Edo APC leaders who had also thrown their weight behind Alimikhena running for a record third time in the senate. He added that the decision to support the sitting senator was borne out of the need to forestall an Etsako man handing over the same elective position to another person from the same federal constituency. Ifijen who faulted the senatorial ambition of former Governor Oshiomhole noted that the rotational arrangement that had been the hallmark of Edo North Senatorial District would be jeopardised should Oshiomhole contest the senatorial seat. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Oshiomhole is a national leader and must not get himself entangled in such selfish decisions. It will be an aberration of a man regarded as selfless to jettison the usual zoning arrangement for his political relevance. “The man who we hold in high esteem and made many of us must not struggle to become king himself. Oshiomhole should be proud that he was able to produce a performing senator like Francis Alimikhena. “The incumbent senator was the saving grace of Edo North in the last governorship election. “If Alimikhena must not be allowed to contest again, then the alternative naturally, cannot be another Etsako person. “An incumbent that is performing can serve out as many terms but at his point of exit, the tide cannot swing to the same ethnic group it is not done. Senator David Mark, George Akume, and others are good examples. “Alimikhena has been the best that Edo North has ever produced in terms of performance. His projects are visible in every nook and cranny of the senatorial district. “We will rather support Alimikhena for another term than support another Etsako man against the interest of the Owan and Akoko-Edo people,” he stated. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team