President Muhammadu Buhari has joined the government and the people of Enugu State in celebrating with Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who turned 58 on Sunday. A statement issued by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity) said the president felicitated the former lawmaker, who served in the House of Representatives for 12 years, before his election as Governor in 2015, for providing visionary leadership, making Enugu an attraction for tourists and investors by promoting peace, stability and unity. President Buhari noted the foresight, wisdom and balance the governor brings to national debates and policies, elevating love for the nation above personal ambition, and diligently pursuing the greater good of his people and the entire South East region. As Governor Ugwuanyi, better known as “Gburugburu” turned 58, the President prayed for long life, good health and more opportunities to keep serving the country. Similarly, the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ Forum (PDP-GF) and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, on behalf of all his colleague PDP Governors, has heartily felicitated with the Enugu governor and his family on the occasion. According to a statement issued by the Director-General of the forum, Hon. Cyril Maduabum, on Sunday, the PDP governors joined millions of Nigerians especially his family, political associates and the entire citizens of Enugu State, “in thanking God for his blessings of wisdom, good health and strength of character as you exemplify quality leadership on the good people of Enugu, the Coal City state.” The forum expressed happiness “to note and associate itself with your sagacity in office and inclusive governance over the past six years, which has endeared you to all and sundry as ‘the people’s Governor.'” The PDP GF stated: “You have been an instrument of stabilisation for our Forum. We wouldn’t fail to mention your astute handling of affairs in Enugu and your preferred option of peace, dialogue and tranquillity as a governance model. “We commend the successful conduct of Local Government polls in Enugu state recently, at which all political parties were provided with a level playing field to canvass their ideas and votes of the people in a free and fair atmosphere. “The Forum further notes your other giant strides and Legacy achievements in office, especially in the area of urban and rural renewal initiatives, modernization and upgrade of the tertiary institutions owned by the State before your assumption of office and your establishment of new ones and the prompt payment of workers’ salaries over the years. “We note also your sustained efforts in infrastructure provision, education, health and poverty alleviation initiatives. We indeed commend the prudence and fiscal responsibility you have brought to bear on the management of the lean resources of the State. “The Forum appreciates your valuable contributions to its progress, the much-needed reforms in our party PDP and the country generally. We recall with nostalgia how you expertly handled the zoning issue in PDP as Committee Chairman.” The forum prayed to God to grant the governor more wisdom and favour in the line of national service, “even as you achieve more developmental strides in Enugu State. Enugu is truly in the hands of God. Be assured of the brotherly cooperation of all your colleagues in the Forum, always. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team