The Enugu State Commissioner of Police (CP), Abubakar Lawal, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the Command’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID), to conduct a thorough investigation into the alleged physical assault of a female officer, by an Assistant Commissioner of Police and Area Commander in-charge of Enugu Metro Area Command, ACP Oluseyi Okenla. The senior police officer was accused of physically assaulting a female police officer, identified as Sergeant Helen Onoja, for no justifiable reasons. The Command’s PRO, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, in a statement made available to newsmen Saturday in Enugu, said the investigation is in view of establishing the facts surrounding the allegations and apportioning appropriate disciplinary sanctions on whoever is found culpable. According to the statement, “The CP, while reassuring the general public that no stone will be left unturned in getting to the root of the matter and meting out appropriate sanctions, notes that the Nigeria Police Force remains a regimented and disciplined agency of Government that has stopped at nothing to subject its personnel, male or female, or of senior or junior rank, to extant disciplinary codes, processes and punishments whenever they erred. “Consequently, the Commissioner has enjoined the general public to avoid creating or peddling skewed narratives over the incident as alleged. The statement further said that “He, however, urged all and sundry to count on the Command to activate the investigative and internal disciplinary mechanisms of the Nigeria Police Force to ensure that justice prevails.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more