Six persons died on the spot on Tuesday when a truck collided with a Mercedes Benz near Akala park along Ogwashi Uku-Kwale expressway in Delta State. Report from the area said the accident occurred at about 4 am involving some women who were going to market. The victims have been deposited at the General hospital in Ogwashi Uku, headquarters of Aniocha South Council area of the state. The state Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ibrahim Abubakar, told the Nigerian Tribune that the victims were three adult males and three females, adding that the two vehicles “scattered in pieces and it was difficult identifying the victims as a result of the impact of the collision. “We couldn’t find the registration numbers of the two vehicles either people took them away or because of the impact we couldn’t just locate them. “Two of the victims were trapped under the truck and it took our men hectic time to push out the truck before we could bring them out dead.” The commander advised motorists to avoid driving in the night especially when they have issues with their sight and high speed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity