One of the leading aspirants for the office of national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Saliu Mustapha, has said he is not the same person appointed into the newly constituted zoning committee of the party. The All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee had on Wednesday announced the composition of an eight-man zoning committee with Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq as a member. Among the eight-man team is one Comrade Salihu Mustapha. Making clarification on Thursday in a statement signed by his media aide, Dapo Okubanjo, the aspirant from Kwara State, Saliu Mustapha said the “Mustapha Salihu announced as a member of the committee headed by Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq is a different person. “Since the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) announced the membership of the 8-member Zoning committee, my team and I have been inundated with calls from all over the country. “So I’m constrained to again reaffirm that I, Saliu Mustapha, am not the same person as Comrade Mustapha Salihu who was listed as a member of the committee. “For the avoidance of doubt, Comrade Salihu was the National Vice Chairman, North East of the All Progressives Congress (APC) when we had another Comrade, Adams Oshiomhole as National Chairman. “And while I am from Kwara State and indeed the current Turaki of Ilorin, Salihu is a key player in Adamawa politics.” Mallam Mustapha added that as a frontline aspirant in the race for the party’s national chairman, there is no way he would be a member of the zoning committee for the forthcoming National Convention. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. National Convention: I am still in race for APC chairman ― Mustapha ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.