The leadership of the National Association of Nigerian students has commenced mobilisation of its over 40 million members for a nationwide mass protest as an ultimatum issued to both Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), to reopen the schools ends on 28th March 2022. In a letter to all the Executive Officers of the Association across public Universities in the country entitled, “Urgent Notice of Immediate Commencement of Mobilisation” dated 25th March, and signed by the NANS President, Comrade Sunday Asefon and Secretary-General Comrade Adekitan Lukman, NANS said there would be no going on grounding economic activities in the country by the street protest tagged “Mass Occupational Protest”. The leadership of NANS urged students to come along with their cooking utensils, mantras, mosquito treated net and other needed logistics to make the stay conducive as the protest may last longer than expected until campuses are reopened. The letter read in part: “Sequel to our ultimatum issued to Federal Government and Academic Staff Union of University ASUU to find a lasting solution to their face-off for our university to reopen on or before 28th March 2023. “With no hope insight for resumption of academic activities on our campuses, you are by this notice directed to commence immediately, mass mobilization of students to resume their academic activities on the newly created University of street, Abuja. “Students are enjoined to come along with their cooking utensils, mantras, mosquito treated net and other needed logistics to make the stay conducive as the protest may last longer than expected until Campuses are reopen “The Coordinator of NANS zone C, Comr. Abah Owoicho Abah has been appointed as Registrar of the New University of Abuja Street and coordinator of the mass occupational protest.” It would be recalled that the student’s body had given both the Federal Government and ASUU two weeks ultimatum, from 15th March to 28th March 2022 to end the strike or face unprecedented anger of students. The students had equally passed the vote of no confidence on the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige and his counterpart in the Ministry of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu to continue to lead the government negotiation team. The resolutions were taken at the expanded National Executive Council (NEC) of NANS held on 15th March, 20222, as contained in a communique signed by the National President of NANS, Comrade Sunday Asefon and Secretary-General, Comrade Adekitan Lukman. ASUU had extended its one-month warning strike by two months over the failure of the Federal Government to meet the demands of the Union. But NANS vowed that all major roads across the country would be blocked by students in mass street protest on the expiration of the ultimatum if the strike is not called off for students to resume classes. The students, therefore, called for the immediate intervention of traditional rulers, religious institutions and former NANS leaders who are currently occupying one position or the other government at all levels to prevail on the Federal Government and ASUU to reopen the universities. The communique read in part: “The expanded meeting was well attended by leaders of our various structures across the country. The meeting expressed great disappointment in the Federal Government and ASUU for their lack of empathy to the cause of Nigerian students who are the major victim of this unnecessary show of strength. “NANS passes vote of no confidence on the Minister of Labour and Productivity and his counterpart in the Ministry of Education to continue to lead government negotiation team. They are either incompetent to engage productively with ASUU at the highest level or they lack the goodwill and trust to build consensus and find an amicable resolution. “We call for the immediate intervention of traditional institutions and religious institutions to prevail on the Federal Government and ASUU to reopen our universities while they continue their negotiation. We believe that every sector of the nation shall be adversely affected by our actions if this strike is not called off. “Also the underlisted past NANS leaders currently occupying political positions across the country are by this publication called upon to intervene, lobby and advise Federal Government and ASUU appropriately on what to expect if this strike is not called off: “His Excellency, Comr. Philip Shaibu, the Deputy Governor of Edo State; Sen. Barau Jibrin, Senator Representing Kano North Senatorial District; Sen. Smart Adeyemi, Senator Representing Kogi West senatorial District; Sen. Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, Senator Representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District; Senator Isahaku Abbo, Senator representing AdamawaNorth Senatorial District. “Hon. Onofiok Luke, Member representing Etinan/Nsit Ibom/Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency; Hon. Chinedu Obidigwe, Member Representing Anambra East/ West Federal Constituency; Hon. Lorwase Herman Hembe. Member Representing Vandeikya/Konshisha Federal Constituency of Benue State; Hon. Uju Kingsley, Member Representing Oguta/Ohaji-Egbema/ Oru West Federal Constituency; Hon. Kolade Akinjo Victor
Member Representing Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency and Comr. Daniel Onjeh, Chairman Governing Board of Project Development Institute (PRODA). “We are appalled by the continued insincerity on the part of the leadership of ASUU in meeting our national leadership to hear directly from them as our fathers on the real area of contention. “We have met with Federal Government representatives and have heard directly from them, but all efforts to meet ASUU leadership is being consciously frustrated by ASUU leadership. “We are also aware that revitalization of our universities is not the main issue of contention between ASUU and Federal Government but issue concerning payment platform and renegotiation of the 2009 agreement. “We have tried our possible best not to direct our rage towards ASUU but Federal Government. However, ASUU is leaving us with no option but to enlist them on a list of our enemies, and we will serve ASUU on the same plate with Federal Government. “Since they won’t talk to us as their closest children in this struggle, we will assume they don’t have our interest at heart and we will treat them as our enemy as well. “If we are part of the beneficiary of your fight, you will not have a problem explaining to us why our gain will be bigger than our loss if the fight continues. “We, therefore, advised Federal Government and ASUU in their best interests to reach a compromise between now and Monday 28th March 2022 or risk our unprecedented fury. “We hope the time between now and on 28th will afford our influential past leaders the window of opportunity to lobby their friends in government to see the danger our collective rage will cause the nation. “The National Assembly should also do everything possible within this time to end the strike. Since they rejected the bill prohibiting public officers from sending their wards to institutions abroad, they have the mandate to make our public institutions work and now that they are failing in that responsibility, the public will respond appropriately. “Should the strike continue after our ultimatum, students across the country will resume to the new University created by the Federal Government and ASUU called The University of the Street, with Main Campus on the Airport Road, Annex Campuses in all the Major Roads in Abuja and Distance Learning Centres in all the Federal Roads across the 36 State of the Federation. “I, therefore, direct students to bring their mattresses and cooking utensils while resuming in their new campus in Abuja and all the designated campuses across the country. There won’t be any going back,” it said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NANS begins mobilisation  NANS begins mobilisation Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NANS begins mobilisation  NANS begins mobilisation  NANS begins mobilisation ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details