THE Federal Government has warned that it would no longer condone any form of criminality on the nation’s oil and gas facilities and installations, saying that crude oil thieves, pipeline vandals and illegal refiners have their days numbered. A press statement by Mallam Garba Deen Muhammad, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of NNPC Ltd, said the warning came from the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor and the Chief Executive of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), Engr Gbenga Komolafe, during an on-the-spot assessment of some pipelines damaged by pipeline vandals and other criminals in some areas and communities of Rivers State, on Wednesday. At Ibaa Community in Emeoha Local Government of Rivers State where the FG delegation witnessed an illegal refinery burnt down by the military, Sylva said apart from causing huge losses for the country, the criminals were also destroying livelihoods of locals and the environment. To solve the problem, Sylva said, “The community must be involved, the security arm must be involved and the third arm, which is the operating publics, must also be involved. I want to let everybody know that these criminals have their days numbered because the country has lost so much from their activities.” Also speaking, General Irabor said in carrying out President Muhammadu Buhari’s directives to contain losses from these criminalities, the military would deploy a different strategy and a new drive by pursuing not only the criminals, but also their sponsors. “We are not only zeroing in on the criminals, but also on those who are supporting them,” he said. In his remarks, Engr Komolafe described the antics of crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism as “a national disaster and the perpetrators as criminals.” He said, “For those who want to do legitimate business, there are clear government regulations on how that is done. But what we have seen here today are criminals and their activities will no longer be tolerated.” On his part, the GMD/ CEO of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Ltd, Mallam Mele Kyari, explained that the scale of crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism seen in the community was beyond explanation. He said that all hands must be on deck to contain the spate of crude oil losses in the country. While appreciating the current leadership of the military, Kyari expressed confidence that through a collaborative effort of government security agencies, host communities and oil companies operating in the area, and with the deployment of the right technology, the menace would be contained. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details