APM Terminals Apapa on Tuesday commissioned a new digitalised administrative building as part of its $438 million investment in port development in Nigeria. The commissioning of the new smart building, which took place at the terminal in Lagos Port Complex (LPC), was in line with APM Terminals’ commitment to introducing innovations to help both shipping lines and landside customers achieve improved supply chain efficiency and flexibility in a cost-effective manner. Speaking at the event, the Global Chief Operating Officer (COO) of APM Terminals, Keith Svendsen, who was in Nigeria for the commissioning, said the new building would set a new standard for port operation in Nigeria. He said, “What is more important is to make sure that we are ready for the future. A port is one of the infrastructure that take years to plan and build. This is why we are working to make it better and get ready for the future,” Svendsen said. The APM Terminals COO said the technology embedded in the new building will improve container handling operations and processing in the terminal particularly in enabling electronic invoicing, electronic receipt and online payment processes that allow customers to fast-track their documentation. Also speaking, the Country Managing Director of APM Terminals Nigeria, Klaus Laursen, said APM Terminals Apapa has invested a total of $438 million in enabling developing infrastructure, acquiring equipment and improving processes at the terminal. “In APM Terminals, we have led with a strong ambition to become a world-class terminal operator. We enable access to jobs, products, foods, and medicine that allow people to create and live better. “The aim is to make APM Terminals Apapa a better trade and logistics zone. We just have to be better and improve every day by investing in our people and infrastructure in order to have a smarter and digitalised business that serves the need of our customers and the country at large,” he said. On his part, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello-Koko, commended APM Terminals for raising the standards of port operation in Nigeria, and for adding immense value to the port over the past 16 years. Bello-Koko, who was represented by Ayo Durowaiye, said, “It is also gratifying to note that APM Terminals is also paying attention to exports particularly now that the Federal Government is focused on growing the non-oil and agro-business sectors.” The Zonal Coordinator, Zone A, Nigeria Customs Service, Assistant Comptroller-General Modupe Aremu, represented by Comptroller Queen Ogbudu, also commended APM Terminals Apapa for setting the pace in terminal operations in Nigeria. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details