Former governorship candidate in Rivers State and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress has commended the stakeholders of the party from the South-South zone for showcasing unity and cohesion at the just concluded national convention. In the Unity List that emerged from the zone both Victor Giadom and Betta Odu were anointed choices as National Vice Chairman, South-South and National Women Leader, respectively. Another candidate from Delta State, Barrister Felix Morka, was also crowned as National Publicity Secretary.
Princewill in a statement on Sunday said the cooperation demonstrated by the South-South leaders was comforting that the APC leaders were ready to walk their talks on genuine reconciliation. He said: “First I just want to say a big thank you to the party for putting together a solid performance and showing Nigeria what party political leadership is about. Politics is not easy, but agreeing to disagree to then come to agreement, is hard work. It requires maturity, it requires patience and it requires mutual respect. I witness this in abundance. Could not have been more proud. “Bad news travels fast, so it was no surprise to me that leading up to it, all the news was about if the convention would hold, whether it would be free of rancour and how it would lead to the break up of the party. Now you have your answer. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The ultimate test of the new electoral act, a balancing of all interests and an outcome that could not have been better. “For those of us from Rivers state, we were especially pleased, not only because we saw South-South unity in action, but because we were given the opportunity to demonstrate Rivers unity as well. While other states were able to achieve a consensus around a single candidate, Magnus Abe’s choice for National Vice Chairman South-South, Worgu Boms, refused to step down for the South South endorsed choice of Victor Giadom and so for this position, we proceeded to an election where Boms was resoundingly bombed and beaten to a pulp, garnering only three votes from thousands. Where then is the faction in Rivers State?” Princewill said the cooperation demonstrated by the South South leaders would go a long way to help the zone at the Presidential Convention, as he revealed that former Rivers State governor and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has the capacity to run for the office. “So it’s back to work for us. Time to focus on the presidency and on the governorship. I’m already back in PH. No time to celebrate. Consultation continues and my push for an Amaechi presidency has been further strengthened. That man understands politics, he understands governance and he understands Nigeria. I learnt a lot this weekend. So much. Always put God first.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs APC Convention: South-South unity assuring ― Princewill Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa APC Convention: South-South unity assuring ― Princewill ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details