The Federal Government has been working very hard in recent months to find extra-budgetary means to fund the development in Science, Technology and Innovation (STI). The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu said this when he inspected the venue of the 2022 STI expo themed: Sustaining National Economic Growth through Science, Technology and Innovation. The STI EXPO is scheduled to be held from Monday 14th March to Friday 18th March 2022. Onu explained that this year’s EXPO is focused on commercializing research done by inventors and innovators. He said that the nation will have more resources and increased exports when research ideas have been converted into products and services. Speaking further, Onu hailed President Buhari for his insistence on at least 0.5% of the nation’s GDP to be invested in the development of STI (Science, Technology and Innovation), adding that effective utilization of STI will accelerate national development. Some of the activities that will be highlighted at this year’s EXPO include; Launching of the STI Television, presentation of revised STI 2022 policy, Presentation of scholarship award to three secondary students who emerged winners of 2022 edition of Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award Competition {YONSPA}. Onu expressed with much confidence that this year’s EXPO will surpass all previous editions in terms of innovations, organisation, increased number of registered participants and many relevant areas. While inspecting the facilities, the Minister expressed optimism and confidence in the level of work done and certified the readiness of the venue to host the EXPO. Onu said that all Covid-19 protocols have been put in place by the organisers, to ensure minimal risk of infections amongst participants and stakeholders. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more