I want to know if it is true that a new Covid Variant called Deltacron has been identified in Europe and the United States? Kehinde (by SMS)  Yes, it is true that a new variant called Deltacron, which contains genetic material from both Delta and Omicron, has been identified in Europe and the United States. The variant remains rare, having been detected in a only a handful of people. Infectious disease specialists say there’s no evidence yet that shows this recombinant variant is more transmissible or virulent, but studies are underway to better understand Deltacron’s viral traits. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95 per cent of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200, 000 barrels of crude oil daily, instead it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell, to declare force majeure. “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rising. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable!” Elumelu urged Nigerians to be more vocal and demand accountability from government as the 2023 general election draw closer. He added that only leaders who can deliver on their mandates can change Nigeria’s trajectory. “Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development,” he said.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team