The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the immediate evacuation of all impounded, accidented and unregistered exhibit vehicles from Police Statio nationwide. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen Abuja by the Force Spokesperson, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. According to the statement, “the order is predicated on the incessant embarrassing and unprofessional manner in which these vehicles are stacked within police facilities causing nuisance and disgusting sight at Police Stations.” It stated that the IGP frowned at the practice of stockpiling vehicles recovered from crime scenes or vehicles which their ownership was being contested or in doubt, in police premises with stringent requirements and cumbersome processes for the rightful owners to reclaim them, stressing that such an act would no longer be tolerated as it was tantamount to gross abuse of administrative and judicial processes. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to it, the IGP further emphasizes that heads of police stations and formations should embark on due process to carry out the needful evaluation and release such vehicles in these categories, on bond, to their owners. “The IGP reiterates that the directive is part of efforts being put in place by his administration to ensure a conducive working environment for its personnel in order to set in motion such required strategies to combat crime and criminality in the country. The IGP further assures that decongesting the Police Stations and facilities nationwide would be of great operational advantage to the Force in effectively dispensing its policing responsibilities giving succour to the owners of such exhibit vehicles. “The Inspector-General of Police equally urges all concerned members of the public to approach various Police stations/formations for the recovery and claims of their vehicles, with valid proof of ownership and proper means of identification,” the statement read. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more