On Wednesday, March 9, Raven, a digital banking service unveiled ex BBNaija housemate, Maria Chike Benjamin as the company’s brand ambassador. The unveiling, which took place at their office in Lekki, Lagos was an opportunity for many customers and would-be clients to see the faces behind the banking app that has become a choice option in the last few months. According to Maria, one of the things that made the decision to become the face of the brand easy for her was that the app was so easy to navigate, even without the instruction of any sort. “As a person, I love honesty and transparency. Also, any business, relationship or partnership does not work well if I can’t see through someone, and they can’t see through me. So, when they had first approached me, I had other fintech companies that had approached me, but there was a lot within their company that they opened up to me about. There was no fakeness or cover-ups, they were transparent with me as to what they would expect for me and we bonded without even a physical meeting, just over the phone. I like to be comfortable when I’m working with people and I don’t like animosity. It was a no-brainer,” she said. On what she was bringing to the table, the enchanting beauty said, “I am bringing my resilience, hard work and loyalty to the table.” Asides from the fact that the service is accredited by CBN, Jude Okorharen Chief Marketing Officer, Raven said, “We started with 5000 and already we have grown to over 200,000 users, approaching 300,000 already of both Nigerians living in Nigeria and those in the diaspora. “During the pandemic, a lot of people couldn’t bank with brick and mortar as usual, and that inspired us to build Raven. This is banking from the comfort of your home.” On the choice of the name Raven, he explained that “the raven is a bird you can describe as fast – swift and reliable, which is everything we stand for. In the Bible, the raven was also the birds God used to deliver awesome meals to Elijah, a feast. “Also, day by day we work on our app to give users a smooth experience. We are here to bring something extraordinary to banking.” Also speaking at the unveiling, Prince Obinna Nwachukwu, Chief Operations Officer, Raven explained that Maria was selected from a line-up of effective people in the entertainment industry. “There was a democratic process and after the screening, Maria emerged tops. Among other things, she is a smart person, she’s been an air hostess before now and she fits in perfectly into our picture of who the Raven ambassador is. “We wanted someone who was hardworking, and who would love us. We wanted someone who could give us the energy and wow factor and Maria easily shone through,” he revealed. He added that “Raven was borne out of a need to create simplicity in banking. We want to make banking easy for individuals and businesses alike. We have designed a beautiful application to cut out heartaches and headaches. We want people to enjoy the saving.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more