It was a roll call of who is who in Nigeria’s  music, comedy, film, marketing communications and political spaces, as one of the nation’s finest marketing communications professionals, and founder/Managing Director, Sodium Group, Fagade Abisoye, celebrated  his 48th birthday anniversary, in Lagos recently. The star-studded event,  organised by Friends of Fagade Abisoye, was graced by dignitaries, such as Gbenga Adeyinka, Babatunde ‘Tee A’ Adewale, Kunle Afolayan, Bovi Ugboma, Abolore ‘9ice’ Akande, Tunde Demuren, Bankole Wellington, Tee-Y Mix, Idris Olorunnimbe, Sotayo Sobola, Tope Alabi, Ayeni Adekunle, Kelvin Orifa, Adebola Williams, and a host of others. Speaking at the event, the celebrant, who expressed delight at the quality attendance, also used the opportunity of the event to announce the official launch of his foundation – OSMD Network, and pledged his support to the development of projects that would enhance the quality of lives of the people. “As you already know, I have been giving back to my state and local communities in Oyo, through the Oyo Si Maa Dun Project. We have trained over 10,000 people in 5 years, donated over N250M to different causes, and intervened in so many areas in local governments across Ibadan,” he said. He also declared his intention to contest in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Oyo State, noting that the state requires needs individuals with fresh ideas, urgent solutions and strategic leadership, like him. Speaking at the event, a member, House of Reps, Shina Peller, described the celebrant as a brother. “We have been through so much together, and he has my complete support in his political aspirations because there is no one more capable,” he added. The event also had in attendance, political heavyweights such as: the former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Otunba Femi Pedro; former Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Lagos,  Steve Ayorinde; and Honorable Titi Oseni-Gomez, former Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Honourable Titi Oseni-Gomez.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team