Last weekend witnessed a gathering of movie stars and entertainment stakeholders who turned up at Blue Pictures Cinema, Onikan, Lagos State to support producer cum actress, OT Bolts as she premiered her latest flick, Rising Sun. The producer who ensured the event was hitch-free was rallied by cast and crew of the movie, which has been the talk of town for weeks as many people congratulated Bolts who has over 40 movies to her credit for living up to expectations. The venue was filled with celebrities drawn from English and Yoruba sectors of Nollywood, including guests from different parts of the country as they rocked the red carpet moment beaming with smiles and taking turns to wow their fans and anyone who paid attention to their glamorous outfits. The producer who also bagged an endorsement deal same day with TBN Food Industries Limited, described her journey in life and career as one that is filled with grace of God as she promised to use her wealth of experience and popularity to add value to her new family. Directed by Sesan Alabi, Bolt’s choice of casting for the movie proved she was always aiming to beat her own record with popular names like Jibola Dabur, Ifeanyi Kalu, Peggy Ovire, MoyinoluwaOlutayo, Blessing Onwukwe, among other leading lights in Nollywood. The movie mirrored a society that struggles with tribal mix up and misunderstanding of personality and identity as Bolt did justice to the unraveling changes in attitude of young people, lovers, couples, parents as the most active viewers towards topical issues affecting the society. Bolts played the character of Ore, who stood for truth and love as she is portrayed as the only pillar that could bring peace among other tribes. The movie, which hit the cinemas on Friday was greeted by applause and positive reviews from viewers as they took to their social media platforms to commend the producer for always raising the bar with her movies. Ayo Balogun, Bukola Adeeyo, Moyin Olutayo, Remmy Shitta-Bey, Seyi Edun, Ricardo Agbor, among others graced the event. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team