The All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee commenced the sale of Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms for its national offices ahead of the Convention on Tuesday. Tribune Online checks revealed that aspirants for the office of the national chairman and deputy national Chairman are expected to pay N20m and N10m, respectively while those aspiring for other national offices will pay N5m. Speaking with newsmen shortly after a meeting of the APC CECPC, the party spokesperson, Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed said all other National Working Committee positions will be sold at 5 million naira. He said:” Those are the deputy positions that are not members of NWC. Those are NEC positions; forms are going to be sold at N1 million. I think that’s one of the information that will go out which I think the Directorate of the Organisation would make it clear, it will go out. “All other positions of NEC which are deputy positions that are non-zonal, and non-NWC would be sold at N1 million. All positions at the zonal level, with the exception of the National Vice Chairman, which is also a member of NWC would be sold at N500,000. Of course, that goes with the constitutional provision of women and people with physical challenges would be sold for 50% of the prescribed fees. “As I said, sales of forms has already begun. The full timetable will be released by the Office of Director of Organisation and the zoning arrangement again, just so that everybody is clear. “The Convention is still 26th of March, that’s sacrosanct. We’re still moving on towards it. And we’re looking forward to it and we’re going to be having our NEC meeting on Thursday the 17th of March.” Ahmed said about ‘three or four thousand delegates will be coming for the national convention.” He restated the APC CECPC position to hold elections into zonal offices and national conventions, simultaneously in Abuja. “Like I said on Friday that the zonal Congresses now will be moved to the national convention to all happen on the 26th of March on Saturday. “So, there’ll be no separate zonal Congress, apart from the national convention. All would happen on the same day. Of course, we expect stakeholders at every zone to meet and decide on certain things. Zoning had already gone out; you already have the list of the zoning arrangements.” Asked to confirm, if the party has since secured the endorsement of the Independent National Electoral Commission for the Thursday NEC meeting, Ahmed insisted that the meeting would be convened as scheduled. “We’re having our NEC on Thursday the 17th. And we’re going to be having it here. So, you’ll be here to cover it live.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity