The Niger State Police Command has announced the arrest of a 25- year-old suspected kidnapper, identified as one Bello Ibrahim of Bafarawa community, Isa Local Government Area of Sokoto State. It stated this in a press statement issued and made available to the newsmen by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Niger State Police Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun on Friday in Minna, adding, that on 19/03/2022 at about 01:00hrs, that information received revealed that suspected kidnappers invaded Tundun-Wada village via Kaboji, Ukachi and Magama villages, Mashegu Local Government Area of the State. The statement stated further that the hoodlums abducted two victims from both Ukachi and Magama villages of Mashegu LGA to an unknown hideout, highlighting that upon the receipt of this information, Police tactical teams attached to Mashegu Division in collaboration with the local vigilante members were mobilized and trailed the hoodlums into the forest, based on credible intelligence on their movement. DSP Abiodun noted that “consequently, the team discovered the temporary hideout of the hoodlums within the forest where they were engaged in a gun battle, stressing that as a result, one Bello Ibrahim aged 25yrs ‘m’ of Bafarawa via Isa LGA of Sokoto State was apprehended at the scene in possession of one Lar rifle with ten (10) rounds of life ammunition and five handsets while other members of the gang escaped into the forest.” He said, “the two abducted victims, which comprised of a male and a female victim were rescued unhurt.” The statement, however, added that during interrogation, the suspect was said to have confessed to having belonged to a five-man gang that specializes in kidnapping for ransom. “He mentioned other members of the gang as (1) Jamilu (2) Mai-glass (3) Maigari Dan-Alhaji and one other, all ‘m’ of Bafarawa, Sokoto State who are presently at large,” the statement added. The PPRO, however, assured that effort is ongoing to arrest the fleeing members of the syndicate, while the case is under investigation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police arrest 25-year-old  Police arrest 25-year-old Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police arrest 25-year-old  Police arrest 25-year-old ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details