It is crystal clear that the rate of corruption in Nigeria is alarming, uncalled for and absolutely abysmal. It has actually affected every aspect of public life, business investment and standard of living. It comes in different forms like petty bribery, contract fraud, money laundering, collecting salaries of nonexistent workers and illegally securing government jobs for family members and cronies. Corruption is an epidemic that has eaten deep into the fabric of the Nigerian society. Over the years, billions of dollars has been stolen from various sectors of Nigeria’s economy which include petroleum industry, trade and investment, agricultural, banking, infrastructural and power sector. The issue of corruption cuts across the entire nation. There are cases of corruption in the Nigerian police force, educational institution, political institution, health, humanitarian and many other sectors. According to Professor Peter Nwangwu, corruption is a potent cancer that has mercilessly eaten Nigeria. Many past governors and public office holders have been indicted for embezzling public funds by the anti-graft agencies, in which they were arrested and charged to court for prosecution. Some of them have been jailed after being found guilty. It will be recalled that the Federal Government of Nigeria has not explained to its citizens what happened to the $2.1 billion arms deal. The money was budgeted to purchase arms and ammunition to fight against insurgency in the North-East. But it was not utilised for the appropriate purpose. Does it mean the money suddenly disappeared into thin air without trace? The Nigerian citizens demand an explanation from the appropriate authority. My heart bleeds when those who claim to be our leaders are abusing their offices for selfish interest. In 2018, Nigeria was ranked as the 36th most corrupt country in the world by Transparency International. It is shocking to note that in 2020, during the two weeks lockdown in Nigeria due to coronavirus pandemic, billions of naira was spent to feed school children in the northern states, when schools were shut down. This is high level corruption. Corruption in Nigeria is like a disease that spreads from mother to child. This reminds me of the Covid-19 fund that the Federal Government gave out through Nirsal Micro-finance Bank to assist individuals and small scale businesses that were affected by the pandemic. Many applicants’ names were replaced with their own family members and cronies due to unnecessary reasons. I am a victim of such circumstances. The way and manner things are going wrong in Nigeria is not healthy for any democratic setting. Even the executive, legislative and judiciary are corrupt. The National Assembly is nothing but a business enterprise where its members’ primary aims are to make money for themselves. They have forgotten that they were elected to represent their constituents so as to make laws for the betterment of the country. It is high time our leaders changed their mindset and work for the progress and unity of this nation instead of amassing wealth to themselves. This is the only way we can achieve development and make Nigeria great again.  Kadiri Saliu, Abuja. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details