Management of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Oyo State has debunked a video making the rounds that a female corps member at the NYSC camp, Iseyin, has chosen to wear a long white skirt instead of the standard white shorts. Assistant Director, Press and Public Relations Unit, NYSC, Oyo State, Mrs Olatoye Christy, in a statement, said that no such corps member was present at the orientation camp, adding that every corps member is abiding with the rules of the scheme. She said, “The attention of the management of the NYSC Oyo State has been drawn to the video that has gone viral in the social media showing an unidentified corps member that was purportedly spotted in NYSC Oyo State camp wearing a long white skirt instead of the conventional white short. “It is important to set the record straight that the scene was never captured in Oyo State camp. Corps members are mandated to always put on the white T-shirt and white shorts as their uniform in camp and there was never any corps member who refused to comply with the NYSC dress code whether based on religious belief or any other reason. “The NYSC camp is a regimented setting and no individual can be allowed to behave contrary to the rules and regulations guiding the orientation exercise. “The general public is hereby advised to disregard the video as a scenario in Oyo camp as such never happened in the permanent orientation camp, Iseyin.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…No corps member wearing  No corps member wearing Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…No corps member wearing  No corps member wearing ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details