There is a need to actively engage youths and ensure their representation in governance, leadership, and entrepreneurship development in Nigeria because this is the only way the nation can enjoy true and sustainable development. Youths are the future of every nation and this is not a cliché, the abilities of the upcoming generation will determine the kind of future the nation will have. The youths are the greatest assets any nation can boast of and if they are not carried along, the nation is merely creating a background for a bleak future. If adequately mentored and supported, Nigeria’s young population can unlock an era of technology-driven economic rebirth, social transformation, and sustainable development in key sectors. It is therefore important for the ruling class to understand the importance of youths not as political thugs or errand boys but as key contributors to the policy of the nation. Every barrier blocking youths from attaining their potentials and participating in governance and leadership must be demolished by the conscious efforts of every Nigerian. Our political class must realise that the future belongs to the youths and must allow them have a voice to prepare for the future. The important roles of young people in building a vibrant and healthy nation cannot be overemphasised and youths must rise up to take a stand and become the voice and conscience of the society. Tade Oluwole, Lagos ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details