Minister of Environment, Sharon Ikeazor has asked the various entities assembled by the federal government to spearhead the clean up of the Ogoni land in accordance with the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) report to work in synergy to achieve the common and desired goal expected by the locals, Nigeria and the international community. Ikeazor said this at the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) retreat organized to educate the various component of the project on their respective roles while implementing the various aspects of the programme. She said: “A lot is expected of you to set the project back on track and accelerate action on all deliverables in line with international best practice. The minister said “Dr Giadom needs collective support to succeed and his success is our success. I ask that you all give him your support. “We are gathered here today to primarily familiarise ourselves with our different roles and to also fine-tune same into a seamless operation for the Project. “The set goals and objectives, which is primarily to clean-up Ogoni land and provide the recommended deliverables as contained in the United Nations Environment Programme, UNEP Report can be easily delivered when we act as a team with a single goal. “UNEP is facilitating this retreat and will at the discussion session clarify the different roles of each of the arms as contained in the gazette establishing the project. “The Governing Council is empowered to manage and superintend the policies of HYPREP, provide the general policy guidelines relating to her functions. National Coordinator, Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP), Dr Ferdinand Dumbari Giadom assured the participants at the retreat that while HYPREP would focus on six areas of interventions, the support of all and sundry are critical. He said the HYPREP would among other things see to the fruiting of the “Ogoni100, this is a drive to establish 100 businesses with a minimum turnover of N25 million. According to Giadom: “This Ogoni100 seeks to support businesses through incubation, equity share, access to commercial loans, etc.” Would drive a process of huge economic activities. He said the project would ensure that it developed “The Ogoniland Economic Development Programme (OEDP); Ogoni Sustainable Water Scheme and the Ogoni Electricity Power Supply Programme. Other areas of interventions to be implemented are the: “Centre For Excellence on Environmental Restoration; Public Health Survey and Cohort Studies” as well as the “Remediation” of Ogoni land. He said “I do not have all the solutions and the antidotes to the environmental and socio-economic problems plaguing the Ogoni people. However, “I stand here because I am committed to implementing the recommendations of the UNEP report to the letter. With an intent to improve the lives of the ordinary man, woman, boy and girl living in Ogoniland.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity