Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a former students leader at the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba Akoko (AAUA) George-Ojo Ayomide (GOA) has declared his intention to contest the House of Assembly seat for Irepodun/Ifelodun constituency one at the Ekiti state House of Assembly. The ex-student who is contesting under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) made his intention known to the party members in the two wards in his country home of Iyin-Ekiti to the admiration of admirers, supporters and other stakeholders in the constituency. Addressing the teeming party leaders and members at his Ward B in Iyin-Ekiti, the aspirant noted he decided to join the race for the House of Assembly seat in the 2023 general election to contribute his quota in the development of the people in the area. Ayomide who explained that he has in the past been offering himself to the uplifting of the people at the grassroots, soliciting the party’s support towards getting the ticket with a promise he would not disappoint the constituency. He said when elected he would change the face of representation in the area by being effective and responsive in making laws and interventions that would enhance growth and economic prosperity in the constituency in continuation of his father’s progressives ideals. According to him, ” I am running for this highly esteemed office in order to sway government choices and positive decisions in favor of the Irepodun/Ifelodun constituency. I am more determined than ever to help reform politics at the grassroots level by using constitutional powers to defend our people’ interests and sponsor measures to address important community issues as it affects our beloved constituency. “I must appreciate you all for the years of assistance my family has received from our great Party, APC, and the wonderful personalities in Ward B. “It must be put on record that my ambition to represent our great party in the 2023 House of Assembly election is guided by a strong vision of making a huge and positive difference in people’s lives and providing transformational leadership that promotes development, poverty reduction, educational advancement, and equity. ” Responding, the Ward B, Mr Moses Akinsaya described Ayomide as a committed party man who has contributed to the development of the APC and the entire community. Akinsaya who prayed for him in his quest to represent the constituency, noted that the party would be willing to support someone on his qualities considering his youthful age and experience in the political system. George-Ojo Ayomide is the first son of the late prominent leader and Saribi 1 of Iyin-Ekiti, Irepodun/ Ifelodun local government area of Ekiti state. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or a variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details