Small businesses or startups may find it tempting to use ready-made software to manage business operations. Who can blame them when off-the-shelf software is cheaper, easier to use, and readily available. With ready-made tools and programs, they can have their businesses up and running in no time. However, many business owners who want to expand their services and products prefer to use custom-made software. If you want your small business to stand out and serve your customers better, tailor-made business solutions may be the most practical choice. Here are more reasons small companies prefer to use custom-made software for different aspects of their business: Custom-made business software can provide the best solutions for your business concerns. This is the best software for handling specific business tasks and those relevant to your industry or particular business. This article from Digital Authority Partners suggests that with tailor-made solutions, there are fewer operational mistakes, improved business practices, and enhanced employee or worker satisfaction. Data security is crucial even for small businesses and startups. You can’t just rely on generic software to secure your business and customer data. This kind of software is vulnerable to attacks and, thus, unsafe to use. Cybersecurity criminals pry on businesses that use off-the-shelf software. Criminals are not too keen on hacking custom software owned by just one company. Instead, they would infiltrate an off-the-shelf program that many businesses use to get bigger rewards. As these criminals become more efficient, businesses need to plan for the worst. The best way to prevent cyberattacks is to invest in custom-made software fortified to protect your data. Business software created to work specifically for your business will help you generate maximum profits. This software can handle tasks unique to your practice or business; automating these tasks will allow you to concentrate on more critical aspects of your business. A small business with only a handful of employees needs to work at maximum efficiency to accommodate more orders and become more profitable. With custom software, you can save money in the long run and foster long-term business growth. Custom software allows your workers to complete tasks quickly and improve employee satisfaction. They can focus better on their priorities and produce valuable outputs. Custom software is also easier to scale. Your software can grow with you and work with your changing needs as your small business grows. Indeed, custom software is more expensive than off-the-shelf solutions, but the value of this software is worth the investment. Off-the-shelf software is not for businesses with unique needs. If you use this kind of software, you might need to update your business processes to accommodate its features. You will waste time molding generic software to work with your business, resulting in lost time, productivity, and revenue. With your custom-made business software, you can develop the functionality that your company needs to simplify your business. You will have complete control over this software; you can choose to expand or limit your control should you change your business practices. You can’t count on your custom-made software developer to provide full support for their products. They can help your employees with technical issues. Your software developer can also help you train your employees in using your new software. Training ensures proper software use and maintenance, preventing issues that might arise in the future. With your own software, you can readily access customer or client data, which helps you create better and more efficient business campaigns. You can quickly generate reports, so you do not waste time checking spreadsheets and reading information. With custom-built software, you will have a customized interface where you can readily check data or any critical information to formulate decisions as soon as possible. Your marketing and sales teams, as well as other business arms, can collaborate better with customized software, resulting in enhanced productivity. It is hard to let go of a program that your business has been using for the past years. Your employees might see this as a challenge because they need to learn new things and adapt to new software methods. You can easily integrate custom-made software into your old software, so transitional impacts will be negligible. Data migration is often the most tedious when a company adopts new software. But custom-built software will allow seamless data transfer without interrupting your workflow. ICYMI:  Again, marauding herders kill five in Benue To make sure your customized software works according to your expectations, it undergoes a strict process involving software design, build, and testing. During the design phase, you will meet with software developers to describe your business processes and workflow and point out specific features you want to set up. In the build phase, your developer creates a data model out of code applications. Your developer will provide timely demos of the build to ensure that the project is running smoothly and that the features you are looking for are on the dot. Strict software testing comes next as developing your own software nears completion. Your team will join software testing. Once the application is ready, you will launch it to a selected pool of users and test it for any vulnerability. Your custom-made software may be fully available to all employees after a successful launch. Custom-made software can help your small business tenfold. It is the right fit for your business, offering perfect solutions for your employees, clients, and customers. It is the best way to secure your business and customer data because it is less vulnerable to hackers. Custom-made software is also a cost-effective, scalable solution, giving you full control. It reduces operating costs in the long run. It is a sound investment and a practical solution to help your small business grow.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc .  Click here for full details Nigerians can now earn US Dollars by working directly with USA companies as affiliate partners, you are paid for simply helping them promote their offers online, earnings can be up to $750 weekly, 

click here to learn more