In keeping with the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to diversify the national economy and reduce dependence on oil exports, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) recently flagged off the first non-oil export processing terminal, situated in Ibeshe-Ikorodu, Lagos State. The event is coming ahead of the official launch of the 10 certified export processing terminals, spread across Lagos and Ogun States. Speaking at the Ibeshe-Ikorodu facility, designated as EssLibra Terminal, the Managing Director of NPA, Mohammed Bello-Koko, implored all agencies involved in the export processing value chain to deploy adequate personnel and work in synergy, to ensure efficiency and quick turnaround in the processing of export cargoes. Whilst commending the management of EssLibra for the quality of facilities at the terminal, he assured them of the readiness of NPA to remove all impediments against the seamless handling of locally manufactured exports and agro-allied commodities. Bello-Koko charged the management of the terminal to resist the temptation to veer off export processing for which the facility was built, as the rationale is to have a one stop shop where all inspection, consolidation and stuffing of export-bound cargo would be conducted in a synchronised manner in order to eliminate all the delays that hitherto rendered Nigeria’s non-oil exports uncompetitive. Speaking further, Bello-Koko said the NPA management under his watch would effectively implement all government policies geared towards the promotion of exports, as well as strengthening indigenous capacity through the promotion of local content. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We took cognisance of local content in the certification process of this terminal, and this is why I expect the host community to take ownership of this terminal and support its operations, in view of the multiplier benefits to the host community,” he said. Whilst conducting the NPA management team on a tour of the terminal, the Managing Director of EssLibra Nigeria Limited, Mr Yemi Adunola, thanked the Authority and its technical partners, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), for their unalloyed support. He pledged his company’s readiness to render efficient services and a commitment to continuous improvement through sustained investments in human capital and requisite technology. The EssLibra Terminal is an integrated logistics off-dock terminal, ready for all export activities such as stuffing, on-site customs clearance and barging services. The terminal covers an area of 120,000sqm that includes an Export Processing Zone, trailer park, RoRo facility and fuel dump. The operator is offering over 100 dedicated trucks, seven barges, two cranes and eight container handlers, among other on-demand cargo equipment. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity