If we sit back and examine where Nigeria is today, we will all agree that we are losing a country. All is not well with us as a nation. From unemployment to insecurity, the story of our country is not getting better. It is a fact that I am just 37 years old but I have seen quite enough of Nigeria to be able to talk about history, at least for the past 20 years that I left college. I grew up in Adikpo the headquarters of Kwande Local Government in Benue State where I schooled at St Andrew’s Secondary School. In the late 90s and early 20s, there were these women selling ‘bush meat’ and dried fish. They used to buy the products from Maiduguri and bring to Adikpo. What used to happen then was that these women would finish from the market on Tuesday evening around 6pm and go to Katsina Ala where they joined other women from there to board night vehicles to Maiduguri. By Wednesday morning, they were in Maiduguri and carried out their transactions. By evening, they returned to Katsina Ala through another night vehicle. So, by Thursday morning, you would see them bringing new stock to the market. This was how Katsina Ala market which opened every Thursday was regularly stocked with ‘bush meat.’ Today, nobody dares these routes in the night. Even at day when one is to travel through these routes, he keeps his eyes at all corners while his knees are bent in his mind, praying for safety. The issue of insecurity has affected every facet of the economy in all parts of Nigeria, not just Benue or northern Nigeria. Part of what has caused this insecurity is unemployment. Within Benue State for instance, the situation keeps deteriorating daily and the story is the same across Nigeria. In places like Kwande, logo, Guma, Gwer West and other local government areas in Benue State, no week passes without stories of someone being hacked down by criminals. The most worrisome region of Benue State is the Katsina Ala-Ukum-Logo axis where criminal gangs have allegedly taken up arms to terrorise the area after the death of their commander, Mr Terwase Akwaza. This has made many people to lose their businesses, creating another round of economic hardship. This was an area where, before now, the youths were predominantly farmers and were always so proud of their farming profession and lifestyle. From 2011, the place started witnessing a drift and today it has become a ‘no go’ area. No one who has an opportunity of a decent job would leave it to go and stay in the bushes as a wild criminal. This shows how unemployment has given us a deadly blow and the situation may get worse as time passes. Our greatest challenge is leadership. The people we knew 20 years ago are the same crop that has remained in control. Some of these leaders have misled the people and instead of stepping aside, they have decided to recruit and arm militias to help perpetuate themselves in leadership. They have made things worse but they will never admit it. They will never leave the stage. This issue is visible across all regions in Nigeria. What shall the people do to get out of this situation? We must make deliberate efforts to fight poverty and empower our youths. Good people must stand up to rescue our society. If we want a better Nigeria that will be safe for our children, we must act now, supporting and projecting new people with fresh ideas into leadership. Nigeria deserves fresh blood to be injected into the polity. I have made up my mind and after due consultations  to represent the people of Benue North East Senatorial district in the 2023 elections. I am a father and I know the pains of allowing my children to witness a worse Nigeria than I do now. Many Nigerians are in my shoes but they keep complaining without acting. I have decided to stand up for the people. The time has come to sacrifice for the future of our children. The Nigeria I am seeing is different from the Nigeria my father, who is a retired primary school teacher, told me about. It’s also a different Nigeria I knew of while I was in high school 20 years ago.  Development starts in nodes and from there it begins to flow. When insecurity started in the North-East, many thought it didn’t concern them, but today the whole country has been engulfed. Given the situation now, every Nigerian needs to be concerned. Even if you are wealthy, don’t think your children are safe. Even if you send them abroad, they will still have the mental attachment to their fatherland and will always suffer the mental injuries hearing stories of how worse Nigeria has become. Today, I charge you to act. The time for a regime change has come. Let us bring in new leaders with new ideas to serve us. If you go out for worship and prayers, pray for Nigeria. As you spend your money, save something and support the right candidates. As you hang out with people and share stories, tell about our desires for a better Nigeria. If we, irrespective of our different religious and political affiliations, can succeed in this project, it will rekindle hope in all Nigerians. That hope alone will begin to change things in Nigeria positively. Nigerians will be assured of a spirit of belonging. Many people have given up on Nigeria because most of the present leaders have perpetuated themselves in power, such that the common man has lost hope of any positive change to come in Nigeria. All hope is not lost if we can stand up together and rescue Nigeria. Iorsamber is the convener of Movement for Advancement and Peaceful Nigeria.