Budding Nigerian singer and songwriter, Chigozie Olewunne, otherwise known as Icegrin, has made case for music artistes, saying they need sponsors that could help them fulfil their potential. The singer who said he has a unique sound that will push his career to the next level disclosed that artistes struggle to push their career alone, adding that with sponsors throwing in their support, many artistes will begin to express themselves better and display their talent to the world. Speaking about his music, he added, “My music is quite unique and it does not fit into any box,” he stated in an interview. I like to think of it as a cross between afrobeat and R&B. I’m also a rap artist.” “The love I get from the individuals who are impacted by my music is definitely my best inspiration to keep going,” he remarked of his greatest source of motivation. The singer also remarked that his debut single, ‘Te Amo,’ was a professional high point for him. “I knew I had to strike the ground running after the song was accepted,” he remarked. I followed it up with ‘Right Place,’ another single. For my most recent song. “I started music in 2016, but I only started releasing songs in 2019.” remarked Icegrin. My genre is Afrobeat, and what got me started was the fact that I’d been making instrumentals that a lot of artists would usually sing over. “Somewhere along the way, I felt compelled to begin singing on my created instrumentals.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Music artistes need  Music artistes need Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Music artistes need  Music artistes need How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team