The continued rampage by gunmen in Imo State intensified on Thursday with the killing of staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission( INEC) and inflicting injuries on others. The pandemonium happened at the Nkwo Ihutte market of Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area of Imo State as gunmen numbering 12 attacked the community. Nigerian Tribune learnt that INEC Adhoc Staff were registering members of the community for the 2023 general elections when the gunmen attacked. INEC officer in charge of the registration process was shot by the unknown gunmen.  An eyewitness who identified as Chief Okpegbuo confirmed the incident. He said: “We had all gathered in the village square in obedience to the directive that we should come out en masse to register. “Not long we queued, the gunmen came in, shot sporadically, hoarded many into a room with a threat to kill them while others scampered for safety.” The Imo State Police Command Public Relations Officer, CSP Michael Abatham when contacted confirmed the incident and said that the command has already commenced an investigation on the incident. He said that the command has dispatched a team to provide security and forestall normalcy in the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Gunmen attack Imo community, shoot INEC staff Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu Gunmen attack Imo community, shoot INEC staff