Earlier in the  year when he turned 78, some younger professional colleagues, including  the iconic Semoore Badejo, Yemi Sodimu and Yinka Davies, had gathered to record a fresh version of his hit song, Adaniloro gbagbe ola. The recording, which was to commemorate his birthday, proved to be quite prophetic: it was Orlando Julius’ last on this side of the divide. The master saxophonist and Afrobeat maestro breathed his last on April 15, 2022, leaving behind a legacy of great music and fond memories. Born in Ikole in 1943 and of Ijebu-Jesa origin, Julius attended St. Peter’s Anglican School, Ikole. However, his father’s demise put paid to his educational aspirations. But not his love of music. His mother, his first fan and teacher, was a dancer. As he would later say of her in an interview with the Nigerian Tribune in 2017: “When it comes to music, after God, it was my mum, Tinuola. She gave me the platform to thrive. She taught me the root of music. She and my stepmum made music very easy for me. She was into cloth weaving and whenever she was weaving, she sang along. She always ensured that I stayed by her side. So, when she sang, I played my sakara drum. This was how I developed myself and became what I am today.” Having been on the St. Peter’s Anglican School band, he knew which direction to turn. In 1957, he left Ikole for Ibadan to pursue a career in music. Although he worked in a bakery, his bond with music was unbreakable. He regularly played drums and the flute with juju and konkoma bands. He ran errands for the highlife musician, Jazz Romero, quietly learning the ropes. Romero gave him opportunity to play with his band, and it was at this time that he acquired his dexterity on his beloved musical instrument, the saxophone. Appointed the leader of the band, he would later work with icons like Rex Lawson and Eddie Okonta. By the mid 60s, Orlando Julius had become an artiste to reckon with in the highlife genre,  along with Adeolu Akinsanya, Okonta and others with whom he shared the limelight. In 1966, Jagua Nana, his monster hit which took him on a tour around West Africa, was rolled out. It was received by fans with frenetic fever. The Afrobeat  vibes could not be ignored, and the inimitable Fela Anikulapo-Kuti too had started developing the genre that would later take the world by storm. Orlando Julius spent time as a session musician in Los Angeles and took up acting roles in movies before moving to Oakland in 1978. While in the US, he released music on Nigerian labels, including Disco Hi-Life.  On his return to Nigeria in 1984, he began recording tracks for the album Dance Afro-Beat, creating the Nigerian All Stars band. His repertoire included singles like Columbia, Ololufe and many others and his strides did not go unnoticed by the relevant authorities, who gave him honours as an icon of highlife Afrobeat music. Despite his impressive record, however, Orlando Julius did not really receive foreign recognition until the re-issuing of his old hits, including Super Afro Soul, which was released in 2000. It was followed by his 1972 album, Orlando Julius and the Afro Sounders, in 2011. In 2014, he was in London to collaborate with The Heliocentrics, recording new music and new versions of older tracks. In 2014, Jaiyede Afro charted at number 13 on the Billboard World Albums chart. Orlando Julius Aremu Olusanya Ekemode was a tireless performer who definitely carved a niche for himself in the music and entertainment industry. He can never be forgotten. Good night, legend.