The Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a security company, Zeus Eye Security Limited, to end extortion of its members by hoodlums along the ports access roads. In this report, TOLA ADENUBI examines whether the move will end extortion or worsen the already fragile situation. Formed by about six leading haulage associations, including the National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Amalgamation of Container Truck Owners Association of Nigeria (ACTOAN), Logistics Practitioners Association of Nigeria (LPAN), Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Container Truck Owners Association of Nigeria (CTOAN), and the National Association of Road Transport Operators (NARTO), the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Association (COMTUA) recently met with the Aare Ona Kakanfo (Generalissimo) of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, and discussed issues bothering on extortion of trucks by hoodlums along the ports access roads in Lagos. The fall out of that meeting was the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a private security company, Zeus Eye Security Limited, to end extortion of truckers by hoodlums along the ports access roads. With the signing of the MoU, stakeholders have expressed divergent views on the outcome of such a venture given the state of insecurity on Nigerian roads, most especially in the dead of the night.  Will MoU be counter-productive? For some truckers associations not directly under COMTUA, the move to sign an MoU with a private security firm to end extortion could become counter-productive judging by the fact that hoodlums who extort truckers mostly work in conjunction with security operatives, including certain elements in the Nigerian Police Force (NPF). Speaking with the Nigerian Tribune on the matter, the chairman of the Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Chief Remi Ogungbemi, stated that, “While COMTUA has a right to choose whoever it wishes to align with as regards tackling extortion along the ports access roads, partnering with a private firm might become counter-productive. “Don’t forget that these hoodlums don’t work in isolation at night. These illegal checkpoints spring up in the dead of the night with the aid and connivance of some bad eggs in the Nigerian Police Force (NPF). Do you think hiring the services of a private security firm will stop these hoodlums who have the backing of some police officers? “I foresee a breakdown of law and order because these hoodlums might not give this private security firm the kind of respect that will be given to maybe the Army or even the police. “The questions I want COMTUA to answer are; will the private security firm work in collaboration with the Nigerian Police Force? Will officials of the private security firm carry arms or just sticks and other security devices? In the dead of the night, if the hoodlums resist officials of this private security firm, what will happen? Won’t there be a breakdown of law and order? “Until they start, and we see the level of successes that they achieve with this arrangement, I remain apprehensive that it might become counter-productive.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also speaking with the Nigerian Tribune, a trucker who identified himself as Jimoh Olatunde, expressed fears that the plan by COMTUA to rid the ports access roads of extortion through the aid of a private security firm might complicate issues. In the words of Mr Jimoh, “We read in the news that COMTUA met with the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, and he gave them a private security firm to tackle extortion issues along the ports access roads. “Most of us know the antecedent of the Odua People’s Congress (OPC) under Gani Adams before he became the Generalissimo of Yoruba land. If we are to go by that antecedent, it means the private security firm is battle-ready to confront the menace of extortion on the ports access roads. I pray the roads don’t become a theatre of street fighting between officials of the private security firm and hoodlums backed by some policemen. “Again, what if officials of the private security firm turn around and join in the extortion spree along the ports access roads? “The extortion syndicate along the port access roads is well organised. The hoodlums work in conjunction with the police and in some cases, with Naval personnel. Can a private security firm stop a syndicate backed by police or military in some instances? Time will tell.”  Need to protect haulage business Faulting claims that the MoU might lead to a breakdown of law and order, President of COMTUA, Mr Adeyinka Arowoyewun, explained that security in Nigeria is everybody’s business. In the words of the COMTUA President, “Security in Nigeria is everybody’s business, and there is no law that says I shouldn’t protect my business or that of my members. “We are the ones suffering the menace of hoodlums along the ports access roads. The cargoes that we carry are looted. Our trucks are vandalised. Our drivers are attacked. Now, we have entered into an agreement with a security company to protect our businesses. It is not that they will be stationed on the roads. No, they will be on patrol to ensure our trucks are no longer attacked. “We have already started. We have written to all the relevant agencies of government. We have written to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and we are also approaching the courts to ensure that the right thing is done. “We will remain law-abiding and won’t engage in illegality. We will ensure our trucks carry out their businesses in line with the law. “Although we are yet to get a response from the Police IG, we have already started seeing reactions to our move. We have held meetings with the Police DPO in-charge of the Kirikiri area. The meeting was facilitated by the Area Commander in charge of that area. It was reiterated at that meeting that any collection of monies along the port access roads remain illegal. “We know some of these hoodlums also work in collaboration with some bad elements in the Nigerian Navy, so we have written to the Naval Command in Apapa. Hopefully, we expect sanity to return to our roads through our initiative.”