President Muhammadu Buhari has thanked the former United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon for his commitment to the progress and socio-economic development of Nigeria. The President spoke with him over the phone on Monday, reiterating his long-standing respect and admiration for the two-time UN Scribe and thanked him for initiating the call. According to a statement issued by Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Ban Ki-Moon commended the President for his swift response to security and other related challenges facing the country. He expressed appreciation for the support of two prominent citizens of Nigeria -Professor Ibrahim Gambari, the President’s Chief of Staff and one-time UN Undersecretary-General and Mrs Amina Mohammed, the current Deputy Secretary-General, saying that they are among the best he had ever worked with. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… Buhari thanks Ban Ki-Moon for supporting Nigeria We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Buhari thanks Ban Ki-Moon for supporting Nigeria