Ahead of the 2023 general election, the governorship aspirant under the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and former secretary to Ebonyi State Government, Professor Benard Odoh, has promised equal participation in the course of governance and every decision-making intended to move the state forward. Prof Odoh made this known when he formally declared for the governorship race at a press conference in Abakaliki on Thursday. Odoh identified the establishment of medium-scale mass industrialization as the shortest route to end poverty in the state. He, however, promised to do it when elected. “The 2023 general election will be unique. Stand up to be counted. Take advantage of the new electoral act recently passed into law and the historic Anambra election that produced Professor Chukwuma Soludo as a motivation to alter the cause of history,” he said. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The express route to dealing with poverty and unemployment is heart and soul commitment to small-scale and medium-scale mass industrialisation, ranging from scaled agricultural value-chain, complex manufacturing, converting raw natural resources to finished products (exploiting, for example, our abundance of sharp sand along the Afikpo-Ikwo-Izzi Cross River belt to set up glass manufacturing industries) to the revival of our existing but abandoned industries in the poultry, cement and PVC sectors. “Our women will be empowered. They will cease to be mere spectators in the polity but, equal participants in the course of governance and every decision-making intended to move Ebonyi forward. “Solving the security challenges we face here at home, with a committed and advanced partnership with our existing conventional security apparatus in the State, will be our absolute priority. The less I say now the better because we already have a comprehensively articulated blueprint of action in this regard. Also declared to run in the general election is the former Senator and former Commissioner in the state, Dr Emanuel Onwe and former Leader of the State House of Assembly, Chief Joseph Nwobashi. Odoh, Onwe and Nwobashi were all in the present administration in the state under Governor Dave Umahi as SSG, Commissioner and Assembly Leader. Onwe on his part opined that between now and the end of July this year, APGA will be the most talked-about political party in the state and described Odoh as a good market. 