NLNG Ship Management Limited (NSML), manager of the Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) Bonny Terminal, has achieved the terminal’s Ecoport Port Environmental Review System (PERS) certification, making it the first certification of its kind in any port in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director of NSML, Abdulkadir Ahmed, disclosed this recently during a training programme organised by the Shipping Correspondents Association of Nigeria (SCAN) in Lagos. He noted that this was made possible because of the proactive nature of the NSML terminal management team. According to him, Maritime Training, Project Management (MTPM) and consultancy services, NSML’s flagship Maritime Centre of Excellence (MCoE), were responsible for the provision of advanced maritime training, project management and maritime consultancy services, locally in Nigeria and internationally.  Ahmed said that the MCoE was the foremost accredited maritime training centre in the country, saying that it was endowed with state-of-the-art stimulators for the provision of accredited maritime trainings in line with leading standards and provisions. He said, “The centre is also responsible for providing specialised maritime services (shipyard supervision, new build specification, refit planning, dry-docking etc.).” Also, the NSML MD explained that as part of the services, MCoE was saddled with the responsibility of administering the Seafarers Continuous Development Programme (SCDP), an NSML scheme aimed at providing training berth spaces for Nigerian cadets onboard the NSML-managed vessels. He said, “I am pleased to announce that over 107 Nigerian cadets have successfully completed their sea-time training on the programme, thereby leading to the deepening of the footprint of Nigerians in the global maritime industry. N CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The MCoE is also currently supervising the construction of a new-build LPG vessel of a Nigerian company in the Hyundai Mipo Shipyard in Korea. This is a further testament of NSML’s capabilities of delivering complex maritime projects to the overall benefits of her clients specifically and the nation generally. “NSML’s success stories, anchored on the core values of professionalism, teamwork, efficiency and caring, all point to the steady and remarkable progress in the last 12 years since it commenced operations.” Ahmed stressed that NSML was strategically positioned to ensure that it continues to play a leading and enabling role in the global maritime sector, enhancing the business of NLNG as a primary stakeholder and by extension the global energy market. The Ecoport Port Environmental Review System (PERS) certification is the only port sector specific environmental management standard, mainly achieved by leading ports/terminals globally. NSML is a subsidiary of Nigeria LNG Limited, which provides a wide range of maritime and shipping services ranging from manning, fleet management, training to terminal management, maritime consultancy and project management. NSML is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NLNG. The private limited liability company provides shipping services, including training, manning, fleet management and consultancy services to NLNG