The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), as one of the key implementers of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) for a digital nigeria, coupled with an ambitious target of achieving 95 per cent of digital literacy by 2030, is forging more partnerships and initiating different developmental programmes and projects geared towards achieving the stated target. To this end, the agency will collaborate with Mastercard to host a training workshop with representatives from the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau (NDPB) and NITDA on cyber security and data protection. Receiving the Mastercard delegation in his office, Mr Kashifu Inuwa, the Director-General of the agency, said, “To ignite digital innovation activities in the country, relevant partnerships would be necessary as the Federal Government is not relenting in its efforts of creating an enabling environment to attract local and foreign investors, which would in turn trigger the exponential growth of the sector and the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).” The NITDA boss, while highlighting the agency’s virtual academy – a massive open platform for online courses where Nigerians can go and learn at their own pace and also get digital certificates – informed the Mastercard delegates that in addition to exploring possible cooperation in the stated area, the agency would like to engage with multinational corporations towards training about one million indigenous ICT professionals in order to fast track the creation of some digital services Nigerians currently need.  “We know globally there is a shortage of talents and Africa is the next frontier because we have the youngest population, so everybody is looking at Africa to provide the talent,” he said. Kashifu, who expressed worry over the low number of key professionals in the field of programming, which has impacted negatively on the Nigerian market, said that there is a need to grow the ecosystem and compete with other countries that are outsourcing professionals to most of the big tech companies. “I believe we cannot succeed in isolation. That is why we won’t work in silos. We need to work together so that we can see the impact and harness the full potential,” he added. Mr Ebihijie Momoh, Country Manager and Area Head for Mastercard, West Africa, who was accompanied by Mr George Owuor, Director of Public Policy for Mastercard, Sub-Saharan Africa, spoke with the DG about a planned data protection and cybersecurity workshop to be held in May in collaboration with NITDA. Momoh said this engagement would help to build data protection and cybersecurity capabilities in the country. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector