A senatorial aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the Lagos Central, Dr Tokunbo Pearse, on Thursday said, for the first time in 20 years, the political climate in the state is more favourable for the party to secure victory, come 2023 general elections.  He disclosed that the party is developing a winning attitude. Pearse said this while speaking at a formal declaration of his intention to contest the Lagos Central District, at the PDP Mainland Local Government Area Secretariat in Yaba, pointing out that things are falling apart in All Progressives Congress (APC) said Lagosians irrespective of party affiliations are ready to get rid of the ruling party in the state. The party chieftain, who was a former governorship candidate, said the political climate, ahead of 2023 polls could hardly be more favourable for Lagos PDP, noting that the party despite lingering issues, was united under the Philip Ivoji- led leadership. Besides, Pearse, who spoke at the event attended by the Party Chairman, Hon. Molomo Adelabi, Deputy Chairman, Adeniji Lawanson; secretary, Taylor Olajide, Treasurer, Mrs Ronke Akande, Mr Effiong Nyong, among others, said Lagos PDP, for the first time in history, had the tacit encouragement of the party at the national level and the unwavering support of the Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, who doubles as the PDP leader in the South-West.  “And the path of PDP to victory in Lagos State has never been clearer than now. Our main opposition, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is in disarray. Many members of the factions within the party are ready to cross over to PDP, following the example of Lagos4Lagos. “The political climate could hardly be more favourable for Lagos State PDP. Despite lingering issues, we are united as a party under the Ivoji- led State Executive Committee, and for the first time in a long time, we have the tacit encouragement of our party at the national level, and the unwavering support of Governor Seyi Makinde, the leader of our party in the South-West zone,” he said. “Lagos State PDP is developing a new attitude. It is an ambitious attitude. It is a winning attitude. I align myself with that attitude completely. With this winning mentality, and with your support, by the grace of God, I will win this senatorial race to become the senator representing Lagos Central, come 2023,” he added. Pearse, while speaking on his chances at the poll, said party delegates had assured him that they would never again vote for aspirants whose strategy was to win the primaries, collect election day funding and go to sleep on the day of elections. Speaking on his mission if finally elected into the Senate, Pearse said he was resolved to ensure that Lagos State was granted a Special Mega-City Status, positing that this would help the state in handling the pressures placed on her by the mass migration of population into the state, as well as the Federal Government pressures on state infrastructure, including roads and bridges. He said he would also work with his other colleagues to ensure that full autonomy was granted to Lagos State over Inland Waterways, pointing out that the Federal Government must not be allowed to usurp marine assets of the state. “The main policies which I will pursue at the National Assembly as a Lagos Senator are as follows: Reinvigorate abandoned Federal Government projects such as Apapa Port Community Infrastructure, Lekki- Epe Coaster Road, and Badagry Deep Seaport Project. “Press for restructuring of the Nigerian Federation, decentralization of Federal offices to states for ease of access. “Diversification of the economy to include state control over their mineral resources, this will reduce the country’s over-dependence on oil and state control over Local Taxes such as VAT.” Pearse, while pledging that he would devote himself to the service of residents of Lagos Central and not to any leader or private interest, said that his efforts on behalf of the district would be communicated to the residents through regular Town Hall meetings, among others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… 2023: Political climate more favourable for PDP to win Lagos- Tokunbo Pearse We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Sokoto Assembly Speaker, Deputy Chief Whip defect to PDP Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…