THE Prelate, Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Samuel Kanu, has called on Nigerians to safe the nation from the present crop of leadership both in private and public sectors. According to the prelate, many people in leadership are insincere to the plights of citizens since they are not holding public trust with the spirit of servant hood as well as not ready to serve, except to ‘serve selfishly.’ Kanu, whose address was presented by the Diocese Synod Secretary, Very Reverend Olumide Aluko, noted this during the 60th synod of the Methodist church Nigeria, Ibadan diocese, on Friday, at Agbeni Ibadan, Oyo State. He said, “Who would save Nigeria from this present crop of leadership in both public and private sectors especially now that we are preparing for 2023 elections? In my view the answer is God. I say this because we have had qualitative leadership in the past and a few of such among the present crop, but we need more women and men with the heart of sincerity while citizens are also enjoined to pray for good women and men to become good leaders in every sector of the economy and nation.” Speaking on the theme of the synod, “Prepare for the second coming of Jesus Christ taken from  “Revelation 22:12”, he stated that the state of our preparedness for good leadership is also akin to our level of preparedness for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ as described in the theology of the Synod theme in 2022. The prelate also urged members of Methodist church who have attain the age of 18 to get their permanent voters cards in preparation for the coming election.  While he advised Nigerians to desist from collecting money before voting in the coming election adding that it will help in enthroning a righteous administration that will usher in adequate security and economy buoyancy which would enable Nigerians to enjoy the full dividends of democracy . “For us to enthrone an honest government, each Methodist who is 18 years and above must get a Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC), and validate it. At the same time, if our desire is to enthrone a righteous administration, none of us must collect money before voting. In this way, we will help enthrone an administration that will usher in, adequate security, and economic buoyancy which would enable us to enjoin the full dividends of democracy in Nigeria,” he said. Similarly, the Archbishop of Ibadan Methodist church, Most Reverend Olumuyiwa Odejayi, in his address noted that the major need of Nigeria as a nation is good leadership and as a result of the nation’s leadership and citizenship failures bedevilling the country has made it difficult for the development and growth of the country. He urged the Christians to be actively involved in politics saying Christianity and politics cannot be separate adding that their doctrine doesn’t go against members going into politics. “Whatever it has become or turned out to be today is orchestrated by the players and if they have made it dirty, we can make it clean. Righteous believers in Christ should go into it because if they don’t, the corrupt people without fear of God will continue to rule and make life unbearable for the masses,” he added.