Police in Niger State have arrested two suspected killers of a 28-year old businessman based in Minna, late Hassan Shehu, who was killed recently. Shehu was killed after he left his shop at the Kure Market in Minna to Tudun-Fulani area of Bosso LG to honour an invitation of one Bashir Ibrahim for a purported business transaction. The Police Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, stated this on Thursday in a press statement he issued and made available to the newsmen in Minna. Abiodun pointed out that those arrested are two brothers, 25-year-old Bashir Ibrahim and 22-year-old Aliyu Ibrahim, of Tudun- Fulani area of Bosso. The statement stated that, “on 12/04/2022 at about 1700hrs, a case of culpable homicide was reported at Bosso Division in which one late Hassan Shehu aged 28yrs, a businessman at Kure Market, Minna was invited to Tudun-Fulani area of Bosso by one Bashir Ibrahim for a purported business transaction. “Unfortunately, the deceased was allegedly stabbed to death on arrival to the venue, in an apartment by the suspect who later escaped from the scene with the victim’s Peugeot 206 vehicle and about two million naira in the vehicle.”  Abiodun further noted that they were arrested on April 19, adding that the suspects allegedly confessed to the criminal conspiracy with 29-year-old Suleiman Mahmud who is presently at large to tie the victim and dispossess him of the money in his car. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The suspects were quoted as saying in their confessional statement to the Police that “on entering the house, the deceased struggled with the said Suleiman while Aliyu stabbed the victim on the chest and was abandoned till he bled to death,” Bashir who allegedly claimed to be the slain businessman’s best man during his wedding last year stated further that he escaped from the scene with the victim’s vehicle and later travelled to Kano to purchase some chemicals for washing gold items from the money stolen from the deceased’s vehicle. “The suspects were arrested in a hotel along Western Bye-Pass, Minna while one Abdullahi Garba aged 22yrs ‘m’ of Tunga-Mallam, Paikoro LGA was equally apprehended for purchasing the victim’s phone from Aliyu at the rate of N3,000 with an exchange of another phone,” DSP Abiodun maintained. Meanwhile, the statement added that the vehicle, N524,000 cash, two bottles of suspected chemical substances purportedly purchased in Kano at the rate of N700,000 were also recovered from the first suspect, Bashir Ibrahim. DSP Abiodun, however, assured that “the case is under investigation as effort is ongoing to apprehend Suleiman Mahmud who is presently at large,” adding that the suspects will be arraigned to court for criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide and receiving stolen property immediately after the investigation is concluded.