The Anambra State Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng, on Friday, 1/4/2022, on behalf of the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Baba Alkali, has presented cheques worth Nine million, three hundred thousand naira (#9,300,000) to thirteen (13) families of deceased Police officers attached to the State Command. Echeng said the gesture is an initiative of the Inspector-General of Police “IGP family welfare insurance scheme” aimed at giving succour to the family of Police officers who died in active service. Also, the gesture is aimed at spurring officers’ to greatness while discharging their statutory duties with the assurance that, their welfare is of paramount importance to the Administration of the Force. The CP while presenting the cheques, to the beneficiaries thanked the Inspector-General of Police for his relentless efforts towards ensuring a good welfare package for personnel of the Force and urged the beneficiaries to use the money wisely by investing in a profitable venture that will, in turn, ameliorate the needs of the dependents left behind. The Commissioner also assures the IGP that, Officers and men of the Command will continue to put in their best to ensure peace, security and safety of Anambra State and Nigeria as a whole. He noted that, in the last three (3) months, the Command had received similar cheques from the Inspector General of Police and it was presented to the beneficiaries. The families thanked the Inspector-General of Police and pledge to make good use of the money. The Cheque presentation information was contained in a statement, made available to Nigerian Tribune in Awka, by the Command’s PPRO, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Families of 13 dead  Families of 13 dead Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Families of 13 dead  Families of 13 dead How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team