Brigadier General John Sura is one of the leading gubernatorial aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State. He speaks with ISAAC SHOBAYO on his aspirations and the insecurity in the state and Nigeria as a whole.  What is your assessment of the present security situation on the Plateau? Governance is like business; it must be handled with all seriousness, because it involves the lives of people and their daily activities. If you have made up your mind to lead, it should be with all seriousness. The situation on the ground in Plateau state is not all that bad. I have thoroughly examined the issue and come to realise that the problems on the ground need commitment and a full understanding of the situation. I know what we need to do as leaders; we should be able to turn the tide against belligerents. I have the full conviction that Plateau State can be redeemed and the security architecture can be re-organised and put in proper perspective. It can also be looked at from the angle of Operation Rainbow where its personnel will be retrained and properly equipped for efficiency. The early warning signal should be strengthened. Operation Rainbow would be equipped, while its personnel would be trained and deployed as the first line of defence for the people of Plateau State.  You are contesting for the gubernatorial ticket of PDP. How will you tackle security challenges facing the state? There are so many things, administratively wise, as a leader you must always stand by your people and identify with them in whatever situation they found themselves in and provide a cover for them when the need arises. We stand to return the Plateau to the state we know it for as a state of peace and tourism. The unpleasant situation over the years has eroded the confidence the people have in our state and there are no efforts to change the stereotype and perception as people are still scared of coming to Plateau; this perception needs to be changed through good governance and understanding of the situation.  Are you not scared by the number of aspirants on the platform of your party?  I am not scared at all, I have prepared myself for it. I have relationships with every aspirant, except the new entrance. I learnt that another three have joined us and I am yet to meet them; there is no bitterness as we are struggling to make the state better. My relationship with aspirants cuts across all the political parties; therefore there is no big deal about it; it is all about the Plateau project.  What are the chances of the PDP winning the election in Plateau State? The chance is as high as ninety-five per cent, presently, the people of Plateau State are disenchanted with the kind of government in place. What we have now in Plateau State is the complete absence of governance. Also, the performance of the APC-led federal government has demarketed the party; it is no longer popular among Nigerians. The people of Plateau State like any other Nigerians are yearning for a redeemed change. In Plateau State, the PDP is waxing stronger on a daily basis as people are decamping to it. I want to assure you that there are quite a lot of APC members that would join us when the standard-bearer emerges. The party is well positioned to win the 2023 governorship election in this state as people are tired of the APC-led government, which has done nothing to ameliorate the present pathetic situation. The state cannot just continue like this; there must be a change of guard in 2023 to advance the state. Go to every nook and cranny of Plateau, there is all manner of fear, insecurity, lack of infrastructure and many other things so people are yearning for a change.  Prior to this time, PDP was deeply enmeshed in crisis as a result of power tussle between the former governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah Jang, and the former FCT Minister, Senator Jeremiah Useini, over the structure of the party. What is the position of things now? If you have been following the trend of political events in PDP in the state, you will know that the matter has long been resolved and settled, they are together as one and on the same page towards ensuring that PDP wins Plateau State in 2023. There is no problem again; the party now has a solid structure and is good to go. The two of them are leaders in all ramifications; they have put their differences behind them for the interest of the party.  How will you tackle the problem of distrust among various ethnic and religious groups in the state? My first agenda in Plateau State is uniting the people irrespective of their background. First, you unite the elders and then go down to address the nitty-gritty irrespective of religion and tribes. If we can get it right from there, we can speak with one body and move the state forward. The unity will also enable us to defend the state.  What is your assessment of the electronic transfer of results, do you think if properly used it has the capacity to reduce the sharp practices associated with elections in Nigeria? This is what is encouraging some of us from throwing our hats into the ring. It has been tested in Anambra State and also here on the Plateau during the recent by-election and it worked perfectly well with little complaint. There is no perfect system anywhere, but it has reduced some of the problems associated with rigging. The INEC should be able to look at areas that need to be strengthened. With this machine, the country should be able to have elections that would be acceptable to Nigerians. The machine is the best we can have in our electoral system for now.  Recently, no fewer than 130 people were killed by terrorists in Plateau State couple with another terrorist attack in Kaduna and other places in the North, how can this menace of terrorism be addressed? Within these circumstances, the military is doing its best as fighting terrorism is not an easy task. You cannot fight terrorism manually, and there is the need for proper equipment to be deployed to address the situation. Equipment that can sight the enemies from a distance. There are different kinds of drones, so the government should go for the appropriate ones. The one that happened in Kanam Plateau State was horrible, but we all need to know that security is everybody’s business, everybody must be conscious of what is happening in his environment; the security cannot be everywhere. On how to tackle insecurity in Plateau State, adhering to the early warning signals is very important. And for us, we have our idea of how we are going to tackle the situation. However, we would not release them out of the bag for now.  What is your assessment of the anti-corruption of the APC-led administration? There is awareness for now, but the so-called corruption has been taken to another level, people no longer keep looted money in their account. The anti-graft agencies should be able to forensicise individuals who are in government.  There’s the assurance from the government that the railway will be back on track as soon as the repair on the damaged portions of the Kaduna to Abuja rail lines is completed, what is your opinion on this? If the Corporation tries it, it will run into a loss, they should begin to think of how to procure the early advanced equipment. It is better for the government to hold on until all these equipment are purchased and thereafter they can start running the railway. The government should also intensify its efforts to ensure that those still in the bush with the terrorists are released.