A 34-year-old man, Vincent Chikeluba Tuesday, appeared before an Ojo Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, accused of attempting to strangle his mother, Mrs Chinwe Chikeluba. The defendant, who appeared before Magistrate D. S. Odukoya, pleaded not guilty to the three-count charge of assault, stealing and causing a breach of the peace. The prosecutor, Dr Simon Uche, told the court that the defendant committed the offences sometime in February. Uche said that Vincent allegedly stole his mother’s properties worth N125,000. According to the prosecution, the defendant also assaulted his mother by grabbing her throat with the intent to strangle her. “He also caused a breach of peace by chasing his mother away from her house,’’ the prosecutor said.
The offences, Uche said, contravened the provisions of sections 168, 172 and 287 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015.  When asked by the court to narrate the incident, the complainant (Mother) told the court that the defendant, her son, has been violent and had always threatened her. Chinwe Chikeluba said that since the demise of her husband, the defendant had persistently asked her to pack her things and relocate to the village, adding that this was just one of such episodes of his violence. The court granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties in like sum. Odukoya adjourned the case until May 6 for trial. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Man, 34, in court for allegedly attempting to strangle mother Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Man, 34, in court for allegedly attempting to strangle mother