The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Transportation Secretariat has revealed plans to begin the construction of 5.76 kilometres rail track in the nation’s capital. The Mandate Secretary for the secretariat, Alhaji Zakari Dobi, made the disclosure when he inspected the vandalised Abuja Light Rail Track, Station and Idu Training Centre on Monday evening in Abuja. Dobi explained that the secretariat was working seriously to go back to the site for the construction of 5.76 kilometres and fixing the vandalised areas of the track, he stated that the total bill for embarking on the construction of 5.76 kilometres of rail track as approved is $272 million. Dobi disclosed that the bill for the construction of the 5.76 kilometres rail track was before the FCTA Permanent Secretary on its way to the FCT Minister’s table, he expressed optimism that the minister has so much concern about the Abuja Light Rail would quickly sign and return the file. “Two things informed this outing. Firstly, to be able to again evaluate and assess the level of vandalisation on the track. “Secondly, to also look at the Training Centre at Idu Rail Station with a view to being able to relocate some Departments of the Federal Capital Territory Administration Transportation Secretariat due to challenges of office spaces in Area 11. What we saw was quite bad even though when I assumed office I have been briefed about the issue of vandalisation. “We have the intention to go back to the site for the construction of 5.76 kilometres rail track in Abuja. The cost of the construction also contains fixing the vandalized areas. We have seen some of the fresh areas that were vandalised and I want to believe that the projection made earlier on fixing the vandalised area will still accommodate what we saw.” He stated. He said that the vandalisation occurred as a result of a lack of operation, adding that if the operation was on constantly it would reduce the level of vandalisation. He assured that the FCTA would fix all the vandalised areas to ensure proper utilisation of the already completed areas with the four Diesel Multiple Units on the ground to put an end to vandalisation. “We are going to look at issues to see if we can come up with possible ways on how to stop the vandalisation completely but I do know that the first thing to do is to resume operation.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE