Presidential aspirant, Olufemi Ajadi, has sent a message of goodwill to Christian brethren even as they celebrate the 2022 Easter. Ajadi who is working diligently to succeed President Muhammad Buhari by 2023 said Nigerians should be hopeful that the lost glory of the nation would be regained soon. He reminded Nigerians of the travails of the Israelites who thought were lost but were guided back to the right path; by the Lord Jesus, assuring Nigerians that the Messiah would take them to the promised land so long they do not lose faith “In this season of rebirth, may you feel your faith renewed and your heart made new with the hope Easter brings.  “Happy Resurrection Day to all wonderful Nigerian families. I am praying your Easter will be bright with the hope and joy of our risen Saviour. “Today, we remember Jesus’ sacrifice and give thanks for what he brought to our world. So, have a blessed holiday filled with happiness, love, and faith. “Wishing you and your family the happiest Easter ever because Easter is a time to come together and celebrate new beginnings,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ajadi felicitates Christians  Ajadi felicitates Christians Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…Ajadi felicitates Christians  Ajadi felicitates Christians