The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a notorious queen of drug cartel supplying psychoactive substances to traffickers in Taraba state, Lami Mai Rigima months after being on its wanted list. The 40-year-old queen of the drug world came under the anti-narcotic agency’s searchlight when a number of traffickers arrested in the state in 2021 and early this year fingered her as their supplier. NDLEA statement on Wednesday said, the manhunt for Lami paid off on April 4, 2022 when operatives of the Agency tracked her to her hideout in Iware village in Ardo Kola local government area of Taraba. He said, the search for Lami began in October 2021 following the arrest, prosecution and conviction of a drug dealer, Abdullahi Madaki, who, after serving his brief jail sentence, returned to the illicit trade with Lami still as his supplier. He was however rearrested on February this year while another trafficker, Jamilu Hassan, who is also a member of Lami’s supply chain, was nabbed on February 24. In Adamawa, Babafemi said, NDLEA operatives arrested a cross border drug trafficker, Emeka Okiru, with 32,700 tablets of Tramadol 225mg under the brand name, Royal and Tramaking. He was arrested at Garden city, Mubi, Mubi North LGA 5th April while preparing to supply his customers who came from Republic of Cameroon. The drugs were found concealed in cartons of paintbrush. In Oyo State, the statement said, different quantities of Cocaine, amphetamine and cannabis were recovered from four suspects: Adetola Tosin; Akeem Kazeem; Korede Ahmed, and Abdulgafar Nureni who were arrested in Omi-Adio, Ido LGA; Oje area of Ibadan North LGA; Iwo Road, Ibadan North East LGA, and Sabo, Mokola, Ibadan North West LGA, when operatives raided parts of the state April 5. At least, 172 kilograms of cannabis was recovered from two suspects: Zaidu Mohammed Kamba and Hussaini Dauda in Kamba area of Kebbi state on Monday by NDLEA operatives. While commending the officers and men of the Taraba, Adamawa, Kebbi and Oyo state Commands of the Agency for their efforts, Chairman and Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Marwa (Rtd) charged them and their compatriots in other commands across the country to sustain the tempo of offensive action against the drug cartels in every part of Nigeria. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NDLEA nabs queen  NDLEA nabs queen Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NDLEA nabs queen  NDLEA nabs queen