No fewer than 79.64 per cent of the total students in public schools, who sat the last year’s school-based West African Senior School Certificate Examination(WASSCE) in Lagos State, obtained credit and above pass in a minimum of five subjects including English language and mathematics. The West African Examinations Council(WAEC) conducted the examination and the five subjects being referred to are subjects combination required to secure tertiary schools admission irrespective of courses of study, particularly in Nigeria. The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, made the disclosure at the inauguration of a secondary school donated by the Dream School Foundation, a non-governmental organisation, to Tohon community in Badagry, last week. The donated school, according to the ministry in a statement, comprises a twin block of 12-unit classrooms and equipped with tables and chairs, a staff room, borehole, toilet facility, library and laboratory with the hope of further developing the school in future. Speaking further, the commissioner, who was represented at the event by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr Abayomi Abolaji, said the performance of students in the said final secondary school examination was far better than the previous years, particularly the 2020 edition, which she put only at 38.79 per cent. She attributed the achievement to the huge investment and commitment, among others of the administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu to education at both the primary and secondary school levels. She commended the Dream School Foundation for establishing the school and donated it to the state government, saying it would go a long way to boost enrolment and access to quality education in Tohon community and the Lagos State as a whole. While calling on other charity organisations, corporate and philanthropic individuals to take a cue from Dream School Foundation and support the state government in any way possible to further lift the education sector, the commissioner appealed to the community leaders and residents to take ownership of the school and ensure the facilities are protected and well used. In her own remark earlier, the Founder/CEO of the Dream School Foundation, Mrs Dena Grushkin, who was represented by the Director of the foundation, Mr Suru David Ojo, said the organisation saw the real need for the rural community to have a public school so that no child is left behind in going to school. According to her, the foundation believes that increasing access of every child to quality education irrespective of status and location will certainly raise literacy level and quality of life in Badagry and the entire state by extension. The founder, while disclosing that the foundation is also giving out scholarships to some indigent university students, promised to continue to support the state government in anyway possible for further development of the education sector. She, just like the commissioner, also urged the people of Tohon community to take good care of the school.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.