Retirees under the aegis of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), Ekiti State Council have commended the State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi for the regular release of funds for payment of gratuities owed workers in the state. Specifically, the Union hailed the Governor for the recent release of N200 million to take care of the backlog of gratuities owed to local and state government pensioners. The pensioners’ appreciation was contained in a letter addressed to the Governor and signed by the NUP Chairman, Joel Akinola in Ado Ekiti. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Yinka Oyebode on Friday in a statement said the pensioners applauded Governor Fayemi for, “demonstrating a strong commitment to the payment of pension and gratuities in the State, stressing that the gesture has alleviated the suffering of its members and given hope to those on the waiting list. “According to the Chairman, the Governor’s ability to source for the fund on monthly basis despite low financial resources available to the State Government was a clear testimony to the Governor’s determination to offset backlog of gratuities owed pensioners by the previous administration in the State.” “That your excellency could source funds, out of the very low financial resources at the disposal of government at this time, shows a strong commitment of your excellency to alleviate the suffering of our members, we are very much grateful. “Sincerely speaking sir, your unparalleled positive disposition to the plight of our members is appreciated, we are very grateful,” he said. The NUP chairman, however, appealed for the payment of pension arrears owed to state and local government pensioners by the previous administration. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Fayemi releases N200m  Fayemi releases N200m Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Fayemi releases N200m  Fayemi releases N200m How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team