Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have busted a syndicate specializing in vandalizing oil pipelines and apprehended no fewer than 69 suspects in various locations in Akwa Ibom State. The state Commandant of the Corps, Mr Abidemi Majekodunmi, who disclosed this to newsmen in Uyo, the state capital, on Thursday, explained that the breakthroughs were recorded within the first quarter of 2022. Majekodunmi said the Corps has the mandate to protect government critical infrastructure and ensure that economic saboteurs in the state were brought to a standstill. “In the first quarter of the year, we placed significant emphasis on the protection of critical national assets and infrastructure. “Here in Akwa Ibom, we do know that the network of pipelines is much and definitely we have criminal and non-state actors tampering with the pipelines for economic profiteering and sabotage. “What we have done is to ensure that we deploy intelligence, capital and assets to make sure that we do activities that serve as a deterrent to these non-state actors, that were always eager to steal petroleum products.  “When we get quality intelligence, we plan and execute operations to make arrests. We also have, currently, about seven boats. In that particular case, we have 69 suspects, illegal dealers in petroleum products. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “They have been charged to court and of course, we have made investigations and done a profiling, so those cases are currently in Court, for the Court to do the appropriate adjudication,” Majekodunmi said. According to him, the Command is proactive in intelligence gathering across the 31 Local Government Areas of the state, to nip crimes in the bud. He said that the suspects had been charged to court for prosecution, adding that the law would have to take it course and those found guilty would face the wrath of the law. The state commandant called on communities with critical government infrastructure to see the infrastructure as their own and protect them against vandalism. He said the Civil Defence must continue to promote crisis management and be proactive in dealing with conflict situations in the state through peace and conflict resolution. The commandant added that NSCDC over the years had deployed technology in fighting crimes so that they reach all criminal hideouts with ease across the state.