THE university system’s categorisation into academic and non-academic staff is apparently not in a bid to breed inequality but for definition of roles. Therefore, the mindset that presupposes that non-academic staff members are second-rated is unfounded. The administrative cadre of the non-academic component of the university has a pool of professional administrators who have not only found a job but embraced the career as a calling. It is necessary to note that the Registry of the University of Ibadan, since inception, has produced veteran administrators who have sustained sound administrative precepts. At a time when core administration is waning, some university administrators have distinguished themselves over the years through singleness of purpose and astute fulfillment of the call. Standing out among that significant bunch is Dr Ikeoluwapo Oreofe Moody who, until 29 March, 2022, was the Deputy Registrar and Secretary of the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan. The accolades depicted in this article are not to be viewed as sheer tradition but a conscious attempt to laud the unique attributes of a woman who, through a dint of hard work, has distinguished herself and retired meritoriously. Dr Moody’s rise through the ranks portrays a woman who found a calling and stuck to it. Born on 29 March, 1957, Dr Moody, a well-bred product of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, has steadily garnered profound experiences to ascend to the peak of her career at the University of Ibadan. She completed her PhD in Counseling Psychology at the University of Ibadan in 1999, consolidating the dogged pursuit of a career in academia. Despite this feat and her dream to lecture, she accepted being a university administrator as a divine call and made up her mind to use it to serve God and humanity. She started her administrative career in July 2000 when she joined the University of Ibadan as an administrative officer in the registry. She has since held several administrative positions within the university’s registry. She rose through the ranks to the position of Deputy Registrar and Secretary to the College of Medicine in November 2018 where she left her marks in the sands of time. Hitherto, Dr Moody served as Senior Assistant Registrar (Academic), College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan from July 2007 to May 2010, taking up significant roles which include supervision of staff and property in the academic unit, responsible for students’ examination matters, student records, admission exercises and NYSC posting in the College of Medicine; Secretary to the Academic Board, Curriculum Committee, Scholarships and Prizes Committee and other crucial tasks. Prior to this designation, she served as Senior Assistant Registrar (Personnel) from October 2006 to July 2007. She also served as Assistant Registrar (Personnel) from March 2002 to September 2006 and Administrative Officer (Personnel) from July 2000 to March 2002. Through consistency in her career and focus, she had the privilege of serving as the Principal Assistant Registrar and Secretary to the College of Health Sciences, Bowen University, Iwo and Administrative Manager of Bowen University Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso, from May 2010 to May 2012 while on sabbatical. Thereafter, she served as Deputy Registrar in the Establishment Division and Academic Unit of the University of Ibadan at different times. In all the positions she had been privileged to serve, Dr Moody showcased resourcefulness, fairness, creativity and innovation. She is a team player, an intelligent and professional administrator. Remarkably, she was a member of the University of Ibadan Governing Council from August 2015 to July, 2019. Dr Moody is widely travelled and has delivered papers at conferences and workshops within the country and abroad. She has also attended many conferences, seminars and workshops with several publications to her credit. She belongs to several professional bodies among which are the Association of University Administrators, AUA (UK), Association of Academic Administrator, Counseling Association of Nigeria, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management, Association of Nigerian University Professional Administrators and Nigerian Institute of Management. A doyen of university administration, Dr Moody’s stride in her chosen career is trailed by quite a number of commendable feats. As an astute administrator, she demonstrated outstanding capacity for problem solving. She displayed experience and knowledge of the registry framework and is gracefully blessed with a humble heart. She deployed effective staff mentoring skills and showcased her penchant for counselling. Her enthusiasm and resourcefulness are hard to miss. As she retires from the university service to the seat of noble administrative icons, here is wishing her good health and sound mind.