Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Thursday, disclosed his decision to run for a second term. The governor, via a newsletter, hinged his decision to seek another four years in office on the need to further build on the solid foundation his administration had laid regarding moving the people of the state from poverty to prosperity. For three years in office, Makinde held that the state had witnessed unprecedented development in all sectors with no zone left behind, in line with his roadmap to accelerated development from 2019 to 2023. Stating that the work to engineering a modern Oyo State is on, Makinde said he wanted another term in office bearing in mind that “work is not done until all problems are addressed.” To realize his second term ambition, Makinde said he had picked up the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms of the PDP. Makinde wrote in the letter: “I promised in my last newsletter that by the time you receive this one, I would have decided whether to run again for office. Sometime last week, I picked up the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for a second term as the elected Governor of the good people of Oyo State. “Yes, I am presenting myself again to serve.” “In the last three years, Oyo State has seen unprecedented development in all sectors with no zone left behind. We have worked hard in all the four pillars upon which our Roadmap to Accelerated Development in Oyo State 2019-2023 is built. We are engineering a modern Oyo State. “But as every engineer would tell you, our work is not done until all problems are addressed. We believe we have laid a solid foundation for solving the problem of moving the good people of Oyo State from poverty to prosperity. “We would love an opportunity to build on that foundation. So now, the ball is, once again, in your court. If you, the good people of Oyo State desire it, then we will serve you for four more years.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…