The president, National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), Mrs Susan Akporiaye has concluded plans to host the participants and winners of the Nigerian Teachers reality show, to a practical tourism experience. The itinerary for the teachers picked from the six geographical zones of the country, will span three days, with destination Lagos tourism in focus and a practical certificated classroom engagement organised by Aerovessel Aviation School in conjunction with Topaz Travel group. Flips to the event, the first-ever private sector tourism give back project to Nigerian Teachers, is designed to educate and create awareness of the vast tourism industry and get the teaching profession to buy into the project, targeting  Nigerian students at their prime. Teachers Niaja TV Reality show, packaged by ANUB Media, had ran two sessions with another one,  up for public outing in August 2022, with Topaz Travels exclusively sponsoring the tourism segment which engages housemates on quizzes on Nigerian destinations, culture, industry icons, Nigerian history, traditions, fashion and food. Apart from the support collaboration from Aerovessel Aviation school, foremost boat services firm, Tarzan marines, has promised to expose and provide water tourism experience to the teachers in what may turn out as a  cheering multi collaboration industry effort to market the deep gains of tourism to  Nigerian organised teaching profession. The Reality Nijia Teachers show has the backing of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, the Nigerian Union of Teachers and the Federal Ministry of Education.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…