Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has noted that his experience in the last seven years has prepared him to become Nigeria’s next president. Prof Osinbajo stated this on Friday when he met members and delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State and the businessmen for the Osinbajo support group in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. At the meeting, Osinbajo said he has been exposed to everything related to governance at the local and international levels which informed his intention to run for president. “Let me begin by congratulating all of us on the very successful completion of our convention, the convention of our great partners, the all progressive Congress. I want to thank you for standing firm and strong so that you’re able to hold a peaceful convention. I also want to thank you for your support for President Muhammadu Buhari and our government in Abuja. “On April 11 2022. I, your son, your brother, your friend, declared my intention to run for president of the Federal Republic. of Nigeria. “I declared my intention to run with the greatest humility. I have served in the government of the federal government of Nigeria for the past seven years and in those seven years, I have been involved because the President considered it right to do and in his own generosity and his own and his openness gave me every opportunity to attend very sensitive international assignments.  “As you know, I also acted as president during certain periods when the President was away on medical vacation. Everything that I learned as vice president, and everything that I’ve learned as acting president has prepared me to run as president of our country and to function as president of our country. “God does not make a mistake. God is deliberate in everything that he does. And by giving me all of those opportunities, I’ve had to see for myself, understand governance for myself at the highest level of our country’s governance, to be exposed to everything local and international at the highest levels of governance in our country. “All of it was not just so that I will sit down and write my memoirs. No, it was to come in handy one day, and I believe the time has come. I believe that that time has come and I have the responsibility to my country, have the responsibility to you, to all our children. To give all of what I’ve learned, everything I’ve learned, all of the service I’ve given to be able to give it to our country and to serve our country faithfully, honestly and transparently. That is my intention. “One advantage I will have is that, on day one, I can hit the ground running because I know what it takes for all of our politicians and for our delegates. I’m sure that you will say I haven’t spoken about the very important things that I want to do and I’m not going to talk about the economy. I’m not going to talk about security. There are so many things that we need to address for that task, not for today. “Today, I just want to speak briefly to our politicians. Every politician is an important nation builder. Everybody who is in politics, everyone is important. “The reason why we’re in politics is to build our communities, to build our local governments, our states or a nation. And our desire is to make Nigeria truly the greatest country on the face of the earth. We can achieve it. “The other thing I want to mention to you is that in all the important decisions that we will make, we will make important decisions on the economy and important decisions on security. We will consult at every level. We’ll make sure that we’ll consult at every level. So you can be sure that we will consult with you,” the Vice President said. Dignitaries at the event include Former Governor of Edo State, Oserheimen Osunbor; Oyo APC chairman, Isaac Omodewu; Senator Representing Oyo Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Teslim Folarin; Oyo APC chieftain, Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN); Special Adviser to the President Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and Senator Bulkachawa among others. Tribune Online reports that the meeting was preceded by another meeting with the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Olalekan Balogun at his Alarere Palace in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…My experience as VP  My experience as VP Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…My experience as VP  My experience as VP