The Federal Capital Territory Police Command of the Nigeria Police has swung into action to investigate the murder of the female corps member, Stephanie Se-ember Terungwa, who was declared missing on April 14, 2022, in Abuja, but was later found dead. Her body was found, on Wednesday, still dressed in her NYSC uniform, almost two weeks after she disappeared in the Lokogoma area of the FCT, the killers had removed some vital parts of her body. FCT Police spokesperson, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Josephine Adeh told the newsman that the Command has assembled the best hands in the command to unearth the mystery behind her killing. Adeh said: “We have commenced an investigation into the killing and very soon, we shall call you for an outcome.” She was said to have left home in her NYSC uniform to participate in the community development programme but she never returned. Stephanie hailed from Benue State and studied Microbiology. Recall that, National Youth Service Corps issued a statement upon the discovery of the body, on Wednesday night via the Director of Press and Public Relations of the NYSC, Eddy Megwa, giving an account of how Stephanie’s body was found dressed in NYSC Khaki trousers.  The corps’ attention was drawn to the body said to have been discovered in Maitama, Abuja, following social media posts. “It was later confirmed that the remains were that of a missing Corps Member, Stephanie Se-Ember Terungwa, with State Code Number FC/21B/5807. She was married to Terungwa Edward Achado,” the Corps said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. We are investigating the murder of late corps member – FCT Police We are investigating the murder of late corps member – FCT Police