A nurse, Natasha Mulenga, has been divorced by her husband for merely liking the pictures of an engineer and fitness trainer, Imasik Mwiya. Imasik is a lecturer at Natural Resources & Development College (NRDC), photos were posted on Zambia Reports page. According to Zambian Observer, Natasha  fell in love with Imasik when she saw the pictures and went on to comment “Aya ndiye ma type ya bamuna zoona” which loosely translate that “these are the real type of men.” The comment was seen by George Banda, Natasha’s husband and this marked the genesis of marital problems between the two. According to a testimony given in court by George, his wife has been disrespectful in their marriage. Banda said his wife had a tendency of admiring men on social media and even leaving comments that suggest she was in love with them, which break his heart.  He says the comment his wife Natasha Mulenga made on Imasik was not the first, adding that, she had previously written, “Oh my gosh! Such are the type of men we want. Not some men, only a voice is what will tell you that this person is man.” However, in defense, Natasha said her husband was inferior and a jealous person who was making life difficult for her. She told the court that George didn’t want her to be on social media because he thought she was there to chat with other men. “My husband is jealous. He feels inferior and this is making life difficult for me. “Imagine he doesn’t want me to be on social media. “He doesn’t want me to go out of the house and associate with other people. I have even stopped going to church because he says there are men there who admire me and he just becomes a beast when I defy his orders and go to worship,” she said. Meanwhile, Banda said he came across his wife’s comment on the pictures of fitness trainer, Imasiku Mwiya, when he was watching highlights of Manchester United vs Leicester City, adding that he got irritated by the comment his wife made on the pictures because that amounts to saying she was desiring to sleep with him. He asked the court to grant him divorce of his wife because he can’t continue to live with a woman who has clear lust for another man. On the other hand, Natasha did not object to the plea of her husband. They were divorced.