The instability in the Oyo State chapter of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), recorded a new twist on Saturday as they held parallel congresses at different locations in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Mr Yinka Folahan, emerged as the chairman of the party in the State at a congress held at National Museum of Unity, Museum Road, Off Dick Road, Aleshinloye, Ibadan, while another in which Mr Kola Balogun intended to contest chairman which was billed to hold at Havanah Royale Hotel and Conference Centre, besides University of Ibadan, Sango-Ojoo, Road could not hold, even though Kola Balogun claimed that the congress was the only one recognised by the national Speaking shortly after the inauguration, a factional chairman, Folahan Oluyinka said the party remains the option for true democrats and lovers of Nigeria. According to him, the manifesto and programmes of ‘Hope 93’ led by the acclaimed winner of the 1993 presidential election, Chief Moshood Kasimawo Abiola are very intact for the progress and development of the country. However, tension became heightened when the congress, which was supposed to be supervised by a national officer of the party, Ambassador Dare Bejide, at the recognised venue, Havanah Royale Hotel and Conference Centre, suddenly disappeared around past 10:00 a.m, and never returned till everyone left. Speaking with journalists, Balogun stated that any congress held at another location contravened the guidelines of the party and would be rendered invalid, assuring that another date must be announced for the exercise. He said: “From the national headquarters, Havanah Royale was chosen by the party where the congress is supposed to be conducted. The INEC, Police, DSS officials were also here to monitor and secure the environment. The person we are contesting for the same office together came to us to have a dialogue and we shared various positions available. “In short, altogether there are 34 positions. We harmonised the list and shared the positions into two. They wrote their own list and we did ours too. We were in the middle of that before they sneaked out of the venue. “The officer, who was sent from Abuja, Ambassador Dare Bejide, also told us he was going to make photocopies of some documents and never returned since morning. Several attempts to reach him via phone calls proved abortive. “So, based on what has happened here today, we are expecting another date to be announced for the congress. I am sure the national body will look into it and announce another date. “We all know that at the factional congresses held in other venues, INEC officials and security operatives were not there but they are here. As a result of this, I am assured that the needful will be done and we will be asked to retake the exercise.” It was observed that both congresses were not supervised by any national officer and did not produce anyone to fill the vacant positions in the party.”