Kwara State government, in partnership with a private company, Drupp Logistics Support Systems, has inaugurated first e-hailing cab platform and business in the state. Speaking during the inauguration of the e-hailing cab business called Drupp in Ilorin on Friday, the managing director of Drupp Harmony Limited, Oluwole Aguda, said that the scheme was poised to provide jobs and socioeconomic opportunities for residents of the state, especially youth. The managing director, who said that the business was not only created for commercial purposes, added that it hoped to deliver social value to people in a safe, secured and affordable way. “At this point in global history where economies are under daily threats of survival, it behoves responsible organizations and governments to expand their outlook to socially beneficial predispositions. “We have employed Kwarans and engaged Kwarans for business. We have launched a platform where persons, groups, and families can achieve conveyance from one point to another point in Ilorin and in every part of Kwara state safely and affordably. “We have started deploying, a safe, secure and affordable service that has been extensively crafted with business sustainability in mind. “The process of our emergence has been hewn from careful and deliberate thought, intelligent planning, collaborative development and assiduous dedication to the objectives of Drupp in Kwara,” he said. The managing director, who commended the existing relationship between the company and the Professional E-hailing Drivers and Private Owners Association of Nigeria (PEDPAN), said that the association had proven that meaningful, respectful and well-defined partnerships could exist between cab-hailing platforms and the engine rooms of these platforms – driving partners. “Drupp is a people-driven business initiative and so we have purposed to provide favourable and fair working conditions for all partners. While we remain perpetually in client service, we moderate that ambition by ensuring that our policies actively capture the interests of our driving partners. “We have enjoyed extensively, the support of the Kwara State Government in approaching this milestone, the progressive environment and enable conditions of support make this evolving story a great one to tell”, he said. Also speaking, Mr. Femi Oyetunji, the Company Secretary of Harmony Holdings Limited, the umbrella business outfit of the Kwara state government, said that the scheme guaranteed security and competitiveness in the area of affordable pricing. He said that the idea behind the creation of Drupp was part and parcel of Kwara State government’s plan to provide jobs and add value to people in the state, adding that the government was determined to make the business work. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Kwara inaugurates first e-hailing  Kwara inaugurates first e-hailing Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Kwara inaugurates first e-hailing  Kwara inaugurates first e-hailing