Pastors in Kaduna State took to the streets to protest the incessant attacks and killings of innocent souls by terrorists in the state almost on a daily basis. The pastors who assembled themselves under the banner of the Interfaith Alliance gathered on the Lagos street roundabout to make their position known over the way terrorists have been tormenting residents both within and outskirt of the metropolis. Convener of the Interfaith Alliance, Reverend Emmanuel Adebayo,urged the Federal Government to step up actions against the bandits who had held the state to ransom. Though they stated that the state government is doing its best, they also said the best wasn’t good enough. It was on this premise they called on the Federal government to bomb the bandits out of existence. The pastors also appealed to the Federal government to compensate all the victims of these attacks, as well as to award scholarships to their children. They also urged the government to rebuild communities ravaged by attacks. This according to the men of God would ameliorate the sufferings of the victims so as to make them overcome the psychological trauma they passed through during the attacks. With the hastag:#Kadunaprays#, Adebayo said the government should more proactive in whatever actions that are being taken against the terrorists. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The essence of our gathering today is to put together what we refer to as ‘Kaduna prays’, a prayer work against insecurity. ‘ I am sure everybody knows that Kaduna is one of the states plagued by incidences of banditry and terrorism and various forms of criminality and of late, it has been on the increase. “We believe that the government is doing their best but their best was not good enough. That’s why we have come out to seek for divine intervention concerning the issue of peace and security in Kaduna state and Nigeria at large. “Obviously we are not satisfies with the way the government is going about insecurity at the federal level. However, we want to actually acknowledged the little efforts that have been made but we believe that more can still be done. Government needs to be preemptive. “The government needs to be more proactive. We have been hearing about cry of our governor; he said he has been taken the reports to those concern; he said they know where they are and that they listen to their telephone conversation but the response from the security agencies are not good enough. “So we are praying that God should touch their hearts to put in more efforts and to be more responsive so that thus issue of insecurity won’t be more reactionary but be preventive and we pray that God will give them more wisdoms on how to go about it in Jesus name. “Some of the statements that the Kaduna state government has made such as bombing the forest, sure it’s a welcome development but what we expect is that the government should carry out precessious attacks. “When you said carpet bomb, they can hide among innocent people. So if you carpet bomb them, innocent people will die. So we believe that the government monitor their movement through intelligence and carry out the bombing.”