The Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, has said that his Bayelsa State counterpart, Senator Douye Diri, is fast-forwarding the development of his state and that if given the right support by the people, the lost glory of Bayelsa in the last 20 years of its creation would be restored. Speaking during the inauguration of the New Yenagoa City link bridge and road projects connecting a new Yenagoa City, which already accommodates an 18-hole golf course, polo field and a 3-Star hotel at Onopa, Tambuwal commended Diri for bringing Bayelsans together, irrespective of their political divide, to work for the development of the state. He said Diri has displayed sterling leadership qualities, particularly in the area of completion of projects initiated by his predecessor, and appealed to those working with the Prosperity administration to play decent politics by discussing issues affecting their state and the nation. “This link road and bridge project signifies a lot. Continuity in governance is very important. When some governors come in, they abandon existing unfinished projects. Governor Diri, I commend you for completing projects started by the previous government because that is the way to go. “You are also bringing back together with everyone and it is important to close ranks to provide leadership to our people. So it behoves us to support good governance as exemplified by Governor Diri. Development is for everyone irrespective of the political party.” The Sokoto governor, who is also chairman of the PDP Governors Forum, further said that “you must play decent politics and go for issues. Talk about failures at the centre, which include insecurity, failing economy and development of our people and not personality. Our differences should be resolved through dialogue and not raising tempers and emotions.” Describing Nigeria as a special blessing to Africa, Tambuwal said the people need to take advantage of the country’s diversity and commit to making it great. Earlier, Governor Diri explained that the projects serve as the gateway to the new Yenagoa city and help provide security around the Government House area. He said in no distant time, the new city would be one of the most modern urban cities in the country. According to him, his administration was striving to construct another dual carriage road from the Ecumenical Centre at Igbogene to the new city. “This project opens up Bayelsa to the new capital city. I like to thank the traditional rulers, communities associated with this project and all who supported and ensured that this road and bridge were completed.” The Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr Moses Teibowei, explained that the road was a dual carriageway linking the Glory Drive at Igbogene. He said with the road in place, there would no longer be a thoroughfare through the Government House to the new city, which already accommodates an 18-hole golf course, polo field and a 3-Star hotel. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…