There is a need to quickly resolve the issues leading to the constant strike actions embarked on by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and save the tertiary education sector from further deterioration. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, should not be comfortable to keep his position if he cannot solve the lingering strike action. He needs to immediately settle with ASUU if he is desirous of retaining his position because he does not deserve that position if he has no capability to solve issues that affect the education sector. Adamu must be told the truth that he cannot continue to remain in office while Nigeria’s university education is being messed up and lecturers are continually on indefinite strike for months with the government showing little concern. In 2020, ASUU went on strike for over eight months while millions of Nigerian students stayed home doing nothing. This year again, ASUU has started another round of strike, thus ruining and jeopardising the future of young Nigerians. ASUU has said if the government could release N200 billion to the universities, its members would go back to the classrooms immediately to begin lectures and end the strike. How much is N200 billion to the government that could earmark N4 trillion for oil subsidy? In a saner clime, the Minister of Education should have resigned his appointment or be sacked by the government for non-performance. If the children of the elite attend public institutions, they would be concerned about the situation.  I call on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, find solutions to the faceoff with ASUU so that the students can go back to the classrooms and continue with their studies. The money being demanded by ASUU is too infinitesimal to the amount of money being wasted by government officials on frivolities and reckless spending. Nigerians should not continue to watch unconcerned while the future of our youths are being destroyed and messed up. Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, Lagos. 