The Anambra State Police Command has debunked the report making the round the state governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, escaped being assassinated by gunmen in his Isuofia country home in Aguata Local Government Area. Tribune Online learnt that there was a media report that the Anambra State governor narrowly escaped death when some unknown gunmen stormed Isuofia on Friday night. The gunmen, according to reliable sources, stormed Isuofia, Soludo’s home town to allegedly assassinate the governor who they thought had left Government House, Awka, to the town for the Easter celebration. But, the gunmen were strongly resisted by police officers stationed at the Isuofia junctions, which are the roads leading to the governor’s country home.  According to the source, the gunmen, who were many, invaded the Isuofia town at exactly 8.30 pm on Friday night with four jeeps. Sources said the gunmen, who landed in the town fully armed, were repelled by the police after a gun battle that lasted for hours into the night. It was learnt that this caused a stampede in the town as residents ran for their lives. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The attack reportedly left one unidentified police officer feared dead and many injured. Reacting, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Youth Leader for Anambra South Zone, Hon Ikechukwu Emenike, who condemned the attack on Saturday, called on the state government to deploy more security men to Isuofia to protect the lives and property of residents in the area as the place had become target for the gunmen “They came at 8,30 pm Friday night and started shooting from the junction. One police officer was feared shot. But, the police were able to overcome them. “I urge the Anambra State government to provide more security men at Isuofia. You can see that the whole town has run away due to the attack. “People did not go to the marketplace today because of the fear that they could be attacked,” Emenike said. Reacting to the development, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu, in a telephone interview, debunked the story, saying the information is not true. According to the PPRO: “The command does not have any such record of any incident like that. Please disregard.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Soludo assassination attempt in Anambra not true ― Police Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Soludo assassination attempt in Anambra not true ― Police