The Federal Government has directed the re-opening of four additional land border posts closed in August of 2019 as part of a policy geared towards efforts to prevent the smuggling of illegal arms, food & agricultural products to stimulate local production. According to a circular released on Friday by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), which was signed by the Deputy Comptroller General of Customs, E.I Edorhe on behalf of the Customs CG, the circular revealed that Idiroko, Jibiya, Kamba and IKon borders should be re-opened with immediate effect. “The circular titled: ‘Re-opening of four additional Nigerian border posts’ which was sighted by the Saturday Tribune stated that, “Sequel to the Presidential directive dated 16th December 2020, granting approval for phased Re-opening of land borders namely Mfun, Seme, Illela, and Maigatari borders across the country, I am directed to inform you that four additional borders listed below have been approved for re-opening. “The newly approved borders for Re-opening are Idiroko border post in Ogun State, Jibiya border post in Katsina State, Kamba border post in Kebbi State, and IKon border post in Cross River State. “Consequently, all Customs formation and Joint Border Posts are to take note and ensure that proper manning takes place in compliance with extant operational guidelines. “Above is forwarded for your information and compliance.”  Meeting announced the immediate re-opening of the country’s four major land borders; Seme, Illela, Maigatari and Mfun. This action is believed to be in readiness for the operationalisation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) which is scheduled for January 1 2021. She further stated that other land borders will be reopened on or before 31 December 2020. The ban on the importation of rice, poultry and other products, however, remains in place. We recall that last year August, the Federal Government announced the total closure of land borders which was part of its efforts to prevent the smuggling of illegal arms, food & agricultural products to stimulate local production. We had stated that the total closure was inadequate to achieve the goal of promotion. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FG re-opens Idiroko  FG re-opens Idiroko Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FG re-opens Idiroko  FG re-opens Idiroko