The military and police authorities in Kaduna State, have cleared the air on the viral video saying paraded suspects, not bandits. Recall, following the attack on the Kakura community in Chikun local government area of the state, was inundated with a video showing security agencies have arrested the invaders of the community. However, security forces who made the declaration during a peace meeting between the leadership of Gbagyi and Fulani communities of Kakura, said investigations have revealed that the people seen in the video were members of the herders’ settlements mistaken for bandits that went to Kakura and apprehended by the vigilante men. The meeting had in attendance the State Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, Chikun Local Government Chairman, Engr Salasi Musa, member representing Chikun Constituency in the State House of Assembly, Hon. Ayuba Chawaza, District Head of Kujama, Stephen Ibrahim and the Commanding Officer 312 Artillery Regiment, Lt.Col. D.O Igwilo. Speaking at the meeting held at the Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State Police Commissioner, Yekini Ayoku said, both the Gbagyi and Fulani communities of Kakura were victims of the Saturday bandits’ attack. He, however, clarified that the bandits who killed the Gbagyi leader’s brother and also rustled the Fulani’s cattle had escaped before the vigilante clashed with innocent Fulani searching for their cattle in the bush and arrested them as bandits who killed Ishaku Karfe. “When we saw the video, we swung into action and called for an emergency meeting between the Gbagyi and Fulani communities of Kakura. ‘And from our investigation, we discovered what happened was that bandits attacked Kakura community and killed the younger brother of the village leader, Isiaku Karfe. “The same bandits attacked a nearby Fulani settlement and within the same area, rustled their cattle. So, the vigilante of the Kakura community where the village head brother was killed, went in search of the bandits that attacked them, while the Fulani also went in search of their rustled cattle. “While in the forest, the two sides clashed. In the process, three of the Fulani were killed and a number of others were injured. The information got the military detachment in the area and they went for rescue and they took the dead and the injured to the hospital. Presently, the injured are now being treated at 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital. “So, these people taken to the hospital are not bandits, but rather, from the narrations of both sides, it was discovered that it was a case of mistaken identity. “So, what we have done here is to bring the two communities together, then the local government chairman, house assembly member, the District Head and Head of the Fulani community have been asked to go back and ensure peace among the communities,” he said. Both the District Head of Kujama, Stephen Ibrahim and Ardo (Head of Fulani Community) in Chikun local government corroborated the Commissioner of Police’s submission and assured that they will go back to the community level and work for peace in the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Military speak on viral  Military speak on viral Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Military speak on viral  Military speak on viral