Lagos Aviation Academy, one of the fastest-growing aviation training centres in Nigeria has been certified as an Amadeus training partner, which gives the Academy the licence to train students on how to navigate the Amadeus reservation system. The course was designed to help travel consultants learn how to make reservations on Amadeus, using graphical and cryptic commands. Commenting on the development, the Director at the Lagos Aviation Academy and chairman of the Association of Aviation Training Organisations in Nigeria, Mr Bankole Bennard, said, “Gaining a better understanding of travel booking platforms such as Amadeus is essential to ensure smooth operations in a profession as complex as being a Travel Consultant or a Travel Manager, especially with the variation of airline policies. “This is one of the many qualifications travel agencies should have. We have so many untrained travel consultants out there and we continue to strongly advocate the importance of aviation training and professionalism. Partnering with Amadeus enables us to offer an academic solution to improve comprehension of the Amadeus system. It allows the users to be better informed and avoid unnecessary booking errors. It is an honour for us at Lagos Aviation Academy to have become a Certified Training Partner with Amadeus and currently the only one in Nigeria.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Amadeus is at the heart of the global travel industry. With its people, its technology and its innovation and is dedicated to working with its customers and partners to power great journeys through technology. Congratulating Lagos Aviation Academy on the success of the ‘Train the Trainer’  exam taken by one of the Academy’s facilitators, Gilles Molesti, Learning Partners Manager at Amadeus said, “I am delighted to inform you that Michael Ozoalor successfully passed the Amadeus Learning Partners Train the Trainer certification. This means that your school is now a Certified Partner.” Speaking on the benefits of the course to Travel Consultants, Chinasa Mbene, the General Manager at Lagos Aviation Academy added, “Most travel companies use Amadeus to book flights, hotels, car hire and other services. The benefits of taking this training for our students include being able to secure good jobs in the industry, learning airline and airport codes, being able to communicate in travel terms with other travel professionals and much more. The Amadeus booking system is user-friendly, reliable, fast and trusted.” 