The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kaduna State Council has lauded the state government for approving N250m for women who want to space their children. This was disclosed by the Chairman of the council, Hajiya Asmau Halilu Yawo, when she led the executive members of the union on a courtesy visit to the state Acting Governor, Hajiya Hadiza Balarabe on Thursday. According to her, the union is a major stakeholder in the promotion of good governance, saying “we are always interested in how government improves the lives of its citizens in the areas of education, health and security.” To this end, the NUJ leader commended the state government for approving N250m to support women who want to space their children. “We are aware that government approved N250 million last year to help women space childbirth delivery, this is unprecedented because no state has allocated anything close to that before in Nigeria,” she disclosed. She, therefore, urged the government to consider capacity training for journalists in Kaduna, saying it would have a great impact on its members.  Responding, the acting governor solicited a robust relationship between the working journalists in the state so as to have a common ground. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She said the call was necessary considering the key role journalists play in the society, especially in information dissemination. “We need to have a common ground because I know you have the channels and networks to get to all the nooks and crannies. “We want to have that kind of partnership that helps us to give relevant, realistic and reliable information to the public,” she stressed. The deputy governor further said the state government had a lot of ongoing programs, especially in human capital development but regretted that people are not aware because of lack of information dissemination. She mentioned that proper information dissemination to the public would go a long way in improving wealth and job creation as well as education. “We have for instance said education in Kaduna State for the first twelve years is free but do people know?” she asked.