 Christian politicians in Bauchi State have been admonished to be united, speak with one voice and be purposeful in the discharge of their official functions. Those vying for one political office or the other have also been urged to consult among themselves and bring out consensus candidates in order not to divide the support of the Christian community in the state in the forthcoming general elections. Chairman, Bauchi State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev Dr Abraham Damina Dimeus gave the admonition on Monday while speaking at the annual Easter Rally held at First Baptist Church, Bauchi. He stressed that: “As a community, we have to be united, work together so that we will not miss the chance to be elected. A situation whereby 10 people are aspiring for one elective office does not augur well for us.” The CAN Chairman added, “we don’t have the number as you know, we, therefore, must be united to win. We will meet with all of the aspirants, discuss with them and see how to reach a consensus so that we can speak with one voice.”  He further advised Christians to ensure that they are registered and obtain their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) and be ready to vote in the 2023 general elections. Rev. Damina also appealed to Bauchi State Government to come to the aid of the Christian community in the state to assist them to host the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the National Association of Religious Educators billed for the coming week. According to him, “the state was granted the hosting rights but as it is now, hosting is becoming difficult due to lack of enough resources by the state chapter of the association. We have to resolve to host the program in the church. We appeal to the State Government to come to our aid.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws.2023: Bauchi cleric admonishes Christians in politics to embrace unity Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. 2023: Bauchi cleric admonishes Christians in politics to embrace unity