Gunmen, on Wednesday, attacked a police station in Anaku, Ayamelum Local Government Area of Anambra State. They were, however, repelled by police officers on duty, causing the gunmen to flee for their safety. The State Police command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu, who confirmed the incident said the gunmen after being successfully repelled, threw a locally made explosive into the compound, but no casualties were recorded. He said police in Anambra are more determined now than ever, to protect all their facilities from attacks, and also face the attackers. He said: “The Anambra police operatives are more firm and courageous, following the successful repelling of an attack in the early hours of the day at Anaku divisional headquarters. “The operatives stood firm and engaged the hoodlums which made them flee the scene. Also, the miscreants in a bid to escape threw bonfires inside the station and it affected three police operational vehicles.  “Meanwhile, police reinforcement is already there, an operation is still ongoing and further details shall be communicated,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.No casualties recorded in Anambra police station attack ― PPRO No casualties recorded in Anambra police station attack ― PPRO