Abductors of the Head of Department, Music, Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, Professor Ovaborhene Idamoyibo, have demanded N50 million as a ransom for his release. The DELSU don was abducted on Saturday night at Eku, Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State by gunmen while on his way to Abraka after a family meeting in Sapele. It was gathered that the incident happened at the popular Eku junction. Our correspondent gathered that the kidnappers contacted the victim’s wife, Mrs Rosemary Idamoyibo, on Tuesday and gave her till on Friday, April 15, to redeem the ransom.  The kidnappers were said to have pursued the lecturer who tried to escape after one of the back tyres of his Highlander Jeep was shot by the criminals. The kidnappers also reportedly fired several gunshots in the air to scare away passersby, while they made their way to the premises of Aganbi Memorial Baptist Church, Eku where Professor Idamoyibo fled after he abandoned his vehicle. Two other victims were also reportedly dragged into the waiting vehicle of the kidnappers along with the lecturer before they sped off back to Sapele Eku road. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the abduction but gave no details.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…