A-one day economic Submit to sustain the economic growth of the Imesi-ile community in Obokun local government area of Osun state was at the weekend held in the town with a charge to sons and daughters of the domain to use their intellectual abilities to develop the place. The Submit which was organized under the aegis of Imesi-Ile progressive Association (IPA) with the theme:”Imesi Ile, Paradigm shift for the 21st-century economy, also advised them to make use of their different innate talents to make the town more virile and forward marching. In a paper presented at the Programme by the lead discussant and a former president of the Association, Engineer Benjamin Olamiju, the Indigenes were further pleaded with to wake up from their slumber and work on a template that would advance the economy of the community and at the same time, add values to it’s inhabitants. Engineer Olamiju who hammered on importance of agriculture which he described as the backbone of any given society, implored people in the town to always encourage agricultural activities that could turn around the economy of the place. He agitated for creation of a market in Osogbo, Osun state capital and sell their farm produces at cheaper rates to attract large customers to buy their items and in returns boom the community economy. The former president charged them to Create Imesi market at Osogbo outskirts and research to best crops for the community land rather than depending on forefathers trial and error system adding that, they should, Plant what sells and feed cottage industries Lemon, Ewe Ori, Orogbo , Obi, Ginger, garlic  “Food crisis is coming worldwide. Africa will become poorer and poorer. Getting Food production in major scale will be a major business in the future. Let our indigenes who are not fully engaged return home, settle down and produce food for the world. It will make our town to bubble again and prosper our land. Let the rich and diasporans help re establish our people.
The future belongs to us, he posited. The former president of the Association further canvassed for large scale food production that could reconnect them with nature and allow them to express appreciation for the value that could be derived from it. According to him,”Agriculture remains our best trade. Our climate remains Clement for rearing animals. Only Jos and Mambilla states have similar terrain. All year round coolness. Let’s strengthen animal husbandry. Pigs and poultry by FASHADE were doing well. “We need to reinforce cooperative system for loan access. We need to create a fund for our indigenes to return home as a soft landing platform. We need to settle intra and inter family disputes and We need education on irrigation along our rivers especially Osun , Uwoja, Uwo, asasa and egudu. “