Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, has described the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III as a colossus, saying that the foremost Yoruba monarch, who passed in the early hours of Saturday was a personification of royalty and nobility in every sense of the word whose type was not easy to come by. The group, while mourning the passing of the monarch, noted that going by his candour, erudition, acumen, charisma and bravery, Oba Adeyemi raised the bar of Obaship in Yorubaland, in Nigeria, nay in Africa, to a very high pedestal. Afenifere said this in a statement by its spokesperson, Comrade Jare Ajayi, noting that the late monarch was a colossus because he was at home in discussing virtually any subject – particularly those bordering on any aspect of Yoruba history, contemporary and ancient. The pan- Yoruba organization posited that Oba Adeyemi who ascended the throne at the young age of 31 in 1970, was really prepared for the post without any outward display of this preparation going by the circumstance of his enthronement, adding that hardly could he be found wanting in any aspect of Yoruba tradition and norms going by the richness of his contributions to whatever subject he was to discuss. “He was a colossus because he was at home in discussing virtually any subject – particularly those bordering on any aspect of Yoruba history, contemporary and ancient. “Oba Lamidi Adeyemi who ascended the throne at age 31 in 1970, was really prepared for the post without any outward display of this preparation going by the circumstance of his enthronement.  “In other words, it can be said that he was unconsciously preparing for the exalted office even when he was a Prince. And after being crowned as Alaafin, he dug deep into all that made the Yoruba tick,” Afenifere stated. “He was very much at home with the history of virtually every town in Yorubaland. Hardly could he be found wanting in any aspect of Yoruba tradition and norms going by the richness of his contributions to whatever subject he was to discuss. “Going by his candour, erudition, acumen, charisma and bravery, Oba Adeyemi III raised the bar of Obaship in Yorubaland, in Nigeria, nay in Africa, to a very high pedestal. His type is not easy to come by,” the group added. Speaking further, Afenifere further described the late Alaafin as one with strong conviction, recalling that on a number of occasions, the group had caused to consult with him and he never disappointed them in terms of how he would shed light on issues and provide useful guidance. “One other thing that stood for the late Alaafin was his readiness to stand by whatever he believed in irrespective of the controversy such a position might generate. Such is one of the virtues of purposeful leadership,” the group added. “On a number of occasions, Afenifere has had causes to consult with him and he never disappointed us in terms of how he would shed light on issues and provide useful guidance,” Afenifere recalled. The group, on behalf of Yoruba sons and daughters, commiserated with the Oyo State government, the immediate and extended families of the late monarch, the Yoruba people all over the world and Nigeria as a whole, and prayed for a peaceful repose of the Oba’s soul and for a successor whose reign would also be as rewarding to the Yoruba race, Nigeria and the black race as a whole. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Afenifere mourns Alaafin.  Afenifere mourns Alaafin Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Afenifere mourns Alaafin Afenifere mourns Alaafin