The All Progressives Congress (APC) Professionals Forum’s Board of Trustees, has nominated Dr Jumoke Oduwole, Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, as Patron/Member of the Forum’s Board of Trustees. It said the nomination is in recognition of her contributions to the country’s development, including the membership and the leadership of the APC. This is contained in a statement made available to the Nigerian Tribune on Friday in Abuja. Conveying the nomination to the Forum’s Board, the National Coordinator of the Forum, Hon. Akeem Akintayo, said the Special Adviser’s nomination “is an attestation to your dedication and patriotism, which has not gone unnoticed.” Oduwole is the pioneer Secretary of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The statement also quoted Oduwole as saying; “I am humbled by my nomination to the Board, especially at a time our great party prepares for the general elections.  “I look forward to joining my colleagues on the board of the forum, to establish a framework for the harnessing of our individual competencies as professionals in politics for the improvement of our national outcomes.” The APC Professionals’ Forum is a registered stakeholders forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC), comprising professionals and technocrats in diverse fields who are registered members of the Party. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…