Christians across Nigeria have been urged to intensify earnest prayers against enemies of peace and tranquillity in the country and across the globe. A Christian fellowship in Warri, Harbinger Christian Publication, headed by the Harbinger of the Last Covenant, Archbishop Iyke Nathan Uzorma, made the call on Friday at the Global Peace Prayer Conference held at Enerhen, Warri, Delta State. He called on Christians to pray against those blocking the entrenchment of peace in Nigeria and the world. Archbishop Uzorma, in his sermon with the theme: “My Peace I Give Unto You,” said that there might be some people who were making fortune as a result of the insurgency, insecurity in Nigeria and conflict happening around the world. Speaking from the book of Luke 10:5,6; John 14:27, Archbishop Uzorma urged Christians to take a stand for peace as the absence of peace in a home and a nation is the foundation of poverty. “We must pray against those blocking peace in Nigeria. There might be some people that are benefiting from insurgency and insecurity in the country; maybe because of the arms, they are selling to the terrorists and therefore, don’t want peace in the nation. “The issue of terrorism is a result of fund mismanagement in the country since independence. “There’s an adage in the Igbo language that says “When there’s a crisis, the cheifs eat. “Absence of peace in a home is the foundation of poverty. When you understand what is happening in Ukraine and Russia, you will understand peace. ” Begin with your mouth and from your heart; that when you speak, someone will have peace. “The government alone cannot give peace. Take a stand for peace in your family, community and nation. We are here in this world to be our brother’s keeper. “When you stand for peace and practice peace, the Almighty God will stand for you,” he reiterated The cleric warned politicians should desist from using the youths as political thugs and help them legitimately. “We are using this opportunity to plead with the politicians; if you want to help the youths, help them. Give them something to do. ” Don’t give them guns to parade themselves as political thugs. Don’t do something you won’t do to your own children to other people’s children,” he said. Speaking on the purpose of the prayer conference, which recorded the attendance of eminent clerics across the South-South, chairman of the Conference’s Central Organizing Committee, Dr Amos Livingstone, said the timing of the prayer conference, which God directed the Archbishop to organise, was an attestation that God was interested in saving not only Nigeria but the whole world. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Christians urged to pray  Christians urged to pray Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Christians urged to pray  Christians urged to pray