No fewer than three hundred and fifty (350) structures were yesterday dismantled in a densely populated Bassa-Jiwa village, situated near the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Most of the dismantled structures were residential buildings, shanties, and kiosks sitting on the right of way (ROW), under the train bridge, and pedestrian crossing in and around the Village, off the Airport road. Officials of the FCT Administration’s Task team on City Sanitation accompanied by a joint team of security personnel stormed and cleared the said structures, for allegedly defacing and posing a serious security threat in the area. Explaining the exercise, Director, Development Control Department, Mukhtar Galadima, said the about 350 structures removed were part of the 500 uncontrolled developments marked for demolition in the area. On whether adequate notice was given before the exercise, Galadima said: “Before marking the structures, we came for sensitisation first, thereafter, we removed them. “It is part of our regular exercise to sanitise the city, and in furtherance of the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport expansion project being awarded by the Federal Executive Council, so we are to clear all these uncontrolled developments before the commencement of the project. They are over five hundred in number, and we have removed close to 350, and we are coming to continue with the marking and removals.” Similarly, Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, noted that the area has multiple levels of illegality, as underneath the main train bridge connecting the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport is full of shanties and the whole community has turned into the shanty and being a security threat. “The whole community is wrongly built, thereby defacing the area, as the community has been expanding extremely. Although good people are in the community, the bad ones have easy access to hide and commit havoc. “Even the chief and some of the locals agreed that Bassa- Jiwa needed to be cleaned, and did that while respecting some of the previous markings we had in the community for resettlement and compensation of some indigenous persons there, those were not touched, but several others were not spared, as they were removed. “We will keep coming back here, because the FCT Minister gave us a strong marching to actually purge all communities along the Bill Clinton Drive Airport connecting Road and several others around the city, to ensure that all shanties are cleared,” he stressed. Reacting to the development, Dauda Gimba, Chief of Bassa- Jiwa Village, simply thanked God that the FCTA officials didn’t do too many bad things to us, as they worked together during the exercise. “It is for our good. The removal of the butchers under the bridge and along the road corridors has opened up and brought back sanity to the area. “Even though the exercise also affected me, as they demolished my structures including that of my secretary, I still thank God that they came and notified us, and we worked together with them to ensure compliance. “What we want the government to do for us is that they should be on the ground and ensure that nobody is allowed to erect any structures in the areas cleared. Not left out, a resident, whose shop where he gets his daily bread and cater for his family was demolished, Mohammed Abdullahi, decried the role of the indigenous people in the area, urging the government to call them to order, as they were the ones giving land to those who erected the affected structures. He noted that hitherto to the exercise, “the place was very unhealthy because it was too crowded and uncleaned. “The way the operation was carried out was commendable, as they were allowed to take their goods and other belongings from their structures without any harassment.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…