Operatives of the Lagos State Police Command on Sunday rejected a N500000 (five hundred thousand naira) bribe to hold on to three suspected drug peddlers, who were arrested with N10 million worth of illicit drugs identified as Arizona. The police are also on the trail of the owner of the seized item, popularly known as Alhaji General in the Mushin area of Lagos State. Alhaji General reportedly escaped from the scene of the interception and sent one of his boys to go and bribe the police operatives with N500000. The image maker in charge of the state police command, Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed the arrest of the suspects in a statement signed by him and made available to the Nigerian Tribune on Sunday. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The police image maker said, “Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) in the early hours of today April 3, 2022, intercepted a busload of illicit drugs at the Mile 2 area of Lagos State. “Preliminary investigations reveal that the drugs which were loaded in a Lagos colour LT bus, with the registration number AGL 205 YD belonged to one Alhaji, better known as General in Mushin.” He also continued that “A member of the drug syndicate confessed that they picked up the consignment which has a street value of about ten million naira (10,000,000.00) at Alaba Rago around 2200hrs yesterday for shipment to Mushin.” According to the police image maker, “Luck however ran out on them when RRS officials on patrol stopped the bus on a routine check at about 0400hrs today. “Another member of the syndicate, Oluwole Omojuyitan aged 40 who had initially escaped the scene on a bike was arrested by the operatives after he came back with a sum of five hundred thousand naira (N500,000) to bribe the officers to release the drugs and suspects,” Hundeyin said. The Lagos police image maker also stated that “Other arrested members of the gang include Ojukwu Omanogho, aged 36, and Hope Jumbo, aged 40.” The Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, while commending the Commander RRS, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi and the team has since directed that the suspects and exhibits be transferred to the Command Headquarters for further investigations.