The Kaduna State Government has said it was not in the know of the recent video being circulated on social media showing security forces parading neutralised and arrested bandits. This was contained in a statement issued by the commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan apparently rejecting the video that went viral on social media. The video which shows security personnel dropping the neutralised bandits at the back of a military van was said to have occurred at Kakura in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state where it was gathered that the military personnel repelled the bandits who stormed the village. But in a quick reaction, Aruwan had said, “it has received enquires from the media and citizens over a video being circulated on social media platforms, allegedly showing security forces parading neutralized and arrested bandits in a location around Chikun LGA. “It is necessary to clarify that at this time, the Kaduna State Government has not received feedback from security agencies regarding any such operations. “Therefore no information can be provided at this time on the veracity of video clips making the rounds. “The Kaduna State Government is awaiting feedback from security agencies on operations being conducted across various locations of interest. “As soon as precise operational feedback is received, updates will be provided to the media and citizens.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…