In a bid to develop the knowledge of students in the area of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), the old students of the Command Day Secondary School, Odogbo on Wednesday facilitated an Information Technology (IT) workshop for some senior students in the school. The workshop, which took place at the school hall had a team of facilitators from Tech Art and Design (TAD) train the senior school students on some trending IT skills like Product Designing, Visual Arts, Photography, 3D Design, Web Development, where the students were therefore encouraged to pick interest in any of them. Speaking to journalists, the president of the alumni association, Mr Olumide Agbola, who noted that the workshop was organised for the students to move in line with the evolving world by acquiring relatable skills said, “the reason for this programme is to let the students know that apart from the traditional professional careers, there are other things that they can actually do. “Things like technology, graphic arts design, and to ensure that they have another means of livelihood, away from the traditional and orthodox careers, as I would put it.” While hinting on the association’s decision to make the workshop an annual event, Agbola advised the government to review the structure of education by factoring some of these IT skills into the curriculum. He said, “It’s not just by computer science, theoretically, it’s by learning computer science with practicals so you have a computer laboratory, and not only just a computer you have programmes that are structured in a way that the students will have collaborative engagements that will enable them to develop their own ideas and to be able to use this software and technology in a way that will benefit them. “Education is not about building classroom blocks. They need to revisit the curriculum they need to check and see the obsolete stuff that needs to be taken out. “And that’s the reason why I think the government should incorporate things into the curriculum. It will need funding, and I think we need to develop capacity in that regard.” The head of the TAD team, Miss Ayanfe Akinsehinde stressed the need for students’ enlightenment on IT skills, which she described as 21st-century skills; and the importance of its classification under skill acquisition training in the school syllabus. Highlight of the workshop was the award of scholarships to four students who displayed excellence in the training. The beneficiaries are expected to go through some internship and mentorship programmes on any IT skills. One of the four beneficiaries of the scholarship, Henrietta Edegbai, an SS1 student, expressed her gratitude to the organisers of the workshop. She, however, promised to seize the opportunity to learn 3D Art Design. The workshop had in attendance the school commandant, some members of the alumni association and teachers. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Command Day Sec School Ibadan Alumni facilitate IT workshop for senior students  Command Day Sec School Ibadan Alumni facilitate IT workshop for senior students  Command Day Sec School Ibadan Alumni facilitate IT workshop for senior students Command Day Sec School Ibadan Alumni facilitate IT workshop for senior students