A Professor of Law, Babatunde Oni, has flayed the Buhari-led administration’s penchant for disobeying court orders at will. Oni who teaches at the Department of Private and Property Law, University of Lagos, said this while delivering the Kehinde Sofola SAN Memorial Lecture and Presentation of Awards, held over the weekend at the BBS Auditorium, Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State. The theme of the lecture was “Nigeria; Reflections of the Bar”, was organised by the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) Sagamu Branch. The university lecturer said according to a report by the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) from 2016 up to date, the Federal Government had refused to obey at least eight court orders. Speaking on the theme, Oni stated that the rot in the nation’s legal profession was truly a reflection of what is happening in the society at large, urging Nigerians to bring about positive changes. He said further that lawyers too are not immune to the nation’s worsening challenges of the bad economy, corruption, tribalism among others, adding that they are equally often caught in the web by dragging the highly respected legal profession in the mud.  Oni advised the nation’s lawyers to rise above these challenges and remained dedicated to the profession by upholding the rule of law. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Nigeria is currently facing serious economic challenges from bad and incompetent leadership, mismanagement of resources, needless borrowings among others that everyone in the country including the lawyers are not exempted from bearing the brunt of this bad economy,” he said. The chairman of the branch, Barrister Sunday Adeniyi, said the lecture was organised in honour of the late legal luminary who was the seventh person to be conferred with the title of the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). Adeniyi disclosed that as a way to immortalise the legal icon, the NBA, Sagamu is proposing a building to be named after him, while pleading for support from members of the public to get the project completed within the shortest possible time. The Deputy Governor of the state, Engr Noimot Salako-Oyedele, lauded the NBA, Sagamu Branch for putting up the lecture to celebrate the late Sofola who was once the Minister and Attorney General of the Federation. He described the late legal luminary as a fountain of knowledge and a great Nigerian who left behind a legacy of uprightness, justice and fairness that the lawyers across the country should always emulate.