A leading development investment bank, DLM Capital, has received the final approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its acquisition of Links Microfinance Bank. The approval will further solidify the group’s much-awaited digital banking entrance and launch. Group CEO/MD, DLM Capital Group, Sonnie B. Ayere, reacting, said, “We sincerely thank the SEC and CBN for consent and final approval respectively of our MFB acquisition. “This will help to position us more as a full-fledged financial services institution which will develop and disseminate various financial products and services that will reach millions of Nigerians who are underserved. “We are looking forward to working with all stakeholders, including the CBN and to expand financial inclusion to meet the ever-evolving needs of the average Nigerian.” MD/CEO, Links MFB, Funsho Idowu, said the bank is positioned to carve a niche for itself in the market space, having just joined the unique group of digital banks to create loans, investment opportunities, support job creation and empower MSMEs through unhindered access to its financial services, as clearly spelt out in the bank’s mission statement. “This deal, together with our NDIC insurance, will demonstrate to our customers that they can trust us with their financial needs,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. CBN approves DLM Capital Group’s acquisition of Links Microfinance Bank