THE chairman of Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State, Alhaji Dayyabu Garga, has disclosed that about 106 corpses have been buried so far following the attacks on communities in the council area. Some terrorists, numbering about 70 on motorcycles, attacked 10 villages in the local government area on Sunday, killing inhabitants at random. The chairman informed the Nigerian Tribune that more bodies of those killed by the terrorists, mostly farmers, were still being recovered from bushes and farms across the affected villages. “As of the last count, no fewer than 106 bodies were given mass burial in my presence on Monday, while many more bodies are still being recovered from the bush and farms across the 10 affected villages.”  Garga said officials of the local government, alongside hunters and vigilante groups, were still combing surrounding bushes and making concerted efforts to recover bodies of those who are still missing. He said: “I was present on Monday morning when we conducted a mass burial for the 106 killed, and we are still picking more dead bodies in the farms.” The council boss, who said military men and other security agencies had taken over the affected communities and villages, further added that those whose houses were not burnt had returned, while those who lost their properties were currently taking refuge at Garga community. “Those displaced are uncountable, but more than 5,000 people are in IDP camps. These people require protection. More security men have been deployed to give adequate security in the area. “The attack affected about 10 villages in Garga, comprising Kukawa, Gyanbawu, Dungur, Kyaram, Yelwa, Dadda, Wanka, Shuwaka, Gwammadaji, and Dadin Kowa, also some parts of Wase Local Government Area.” Meanwhile, the member representing Pankshin Kanke Kanam federal constituency of Plateau State in the National Assembly, Honourable Yusuf Gagdi, has disclosed that a military base would soon be established in strategic areas, particularly in Kanam Local Government Area, which share boundaries with other states. The federal lawmaker, who disclosed this on Thursday when he paid a courtesy call on the chairman of Kanam Local Government, said he had moved a motion for the setting up of a permanent military base and a Mobile Police Squadron in Kanam. He said: “Prior to the attacks, Kanam used to be the safest and most peaceful area in Plateau. We don’t know why they attacked us, but we are people of faith and we will take it that God is testing our faith.” Honorable Gagdi commended the swift deployment of military personnel in the affected communities to secure the people. In his response, the council boss said the attackers were camping at Kamabari forest in neighbouring Taraba State, adding that the forest is like their village where they move freely with AK-47 and other weapons. “They want to turn the forest into something like Sambisa. If they are not flushed out, we will not be safe,” he said.