Former governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Peter Obi, on Wednesday, appealed to the party faithful to prevail on the leadership of the party to support the candidate with a proven track record and not one who would make empty promises The PDP presidential hopeful made the appeal when he met with the Edo State PDP delegates at the party’s secretariat in Benin City, Edo State. Obi said he had a proven track record as the former governor of Anambra State and that Nigerians could verify his claims. “I am appealing to you, let us change it by ensuring that our party brings out a competent, credible candidate with a proven track record and not grammar, not say I promise this. Luckily, Edo State is not far from Anambra State.  “I have Anambra people here, ask them, most of them will even tell you that they are not happy with me because I can tell you the problem I had with them when I was a governor and which will likely happen maybe with the political elites if I become president. “The big ones may not be happy with me but you, you will be, to make sure that the right thing is done, we must pull out our children from poverty by supporting micro, small-medium businesses,” he said. Obi, who lamented that Nigerians now live in fear due to the level of insecurity in the country, noted that all the problems confronting the nation could be placed at the doorstep of leadership failure and that something urgent needed to be done to correct the situation. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We now live in a country where we wake up every day to sad news. You might think it is not happening in Benin, some of us think it is not happening in Lagos, some people think it is not happening in Enugu or Akwa but I assure you, unless you do something, it will happen in those places. “What we are witnessing in Nigeria today, is a cumulative effect of leadership failure over the years and it is going to go round,” he said. Responding, the Edo state chairman of the party, Tony Aziegbemin promised to go out of their way to support the aspirant’s presidential ambition Earlier, Mr Obi was at the Edo State Government House, where he held a brief meeting with Governor Godwin Obaseki, and stated the need for Nigerians to make sacrifices for the country to overcome its current challenges and make progress. According to him, “As you know, I am one of those in my party who are aspiring to serve this country. My aspiration is borne out of the fact that our country is going through a lot of challenges. We will need to all make sacrifices in building a better nation for our children. “We need somebody who is conversant with the realities because of the enormity of the problems besieging this country today. If the issues are not aggressively tackled from 2023, this country would not be there for all of us.” Responding, Governor Obaseki said Nigeria needed unity and a country where everyone would feel to be part of the country and have access to opportunities like every other person. “As we approach the 2023 elections, we must realise that Nigeria needs Unity and for us to preserve our country, all parts of this country must feel included in the politics,” Governor Obaseki reiterated. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Obi urges Edo PDP delegates to support candidates with proven track records