The pro-chancellor and chairman of the governing council of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Dr Godknows Igali, has promised that the process to pick the institution’s new vice-chancellor will be transparent and merit-driven. Dr Igali made the pledge on Monday, April 25 during the inauguration of the Joint Council and Senate Board for the appointment of a new vice-chancellor to replace the incumbent, Professor Joseph Fuwape, whose five-year tenure ends on May 23, 2022. He said members of the board “are people of proven integrity and impeccable character who can be trusted to do justice to the selection of a new vice-chancellor.” He also appealed to the members to be fair, objective and equitable in the discharge of their assignment. He said the board under his guidance would demonstrate “dedication, commitment, transparency and impartiality” and “adhere strictly to terms of reference and ensure that the best candidate emerges at the end of the entire process.” Highlighting the qualities needed from the person who would be picked as the 8th substantive vice-chancellor, Dr Igali said he should be one “that can move the university forward from where it is, strengthen its togetherness as a family and have a vision to drive future growth and competitiveness.”  Igali described the current period as a sober one for all stakeholders in the university system due to the fact that virtually all public universities in the country have been shut due to the strike embarked upon by university-based staff unions. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Appointment of new VC for FUTA will be transparent, merit-driven ― Pro-chancellor Appointment of new VC for FUTA will be transparent, merit-driven ― Pro-chancellor