If the trending story of a Dubai sex orgy by pupils of Chrisland School, Lagos, illustrates anything, it is the growing culture of weaponisation of rape and the abject failure of parenthood, particularly motherhood. The chain of ugly revelations surrounding the incident was triggered by social media opportunism: an attention seeker published a video wherein a woman accused the institution of covering up the gang rape of her daughter while she and her mates were in Dubai to take part in the World School Games, a four-day annual competition, in March. Said the complainant: “They went out in the morning to have breakfast, and one of the boys begged her to lend him her phone charger. Later in the evening after dinner, the boy called her room, asking that she should come and pick up her charger. She went there, and one of the boys asked her to take her charger from the toilet. They hijacked her and gave her a substance to take. They were all under the influence of drugs. After taking the substance, she didn’t know what she was doing again.” As it turned out, however, the rape claim was sheer bunkum. The video of the Dubai proceedings uploaded on social media showed convincingly that this was a case of gross misconduct by pupils, not gang rape. As revealed by Akin Fadeyi, a member of the institution’s advisory committee, out of the 76 students that represented the school, 71 “ensured an untainted adherence to our standards, abiding with laid down regulations and code of conduct.” Fadeyi said in its bid to set up moral boundaries, the school kept the female pupils on the 11th floor while their male counterparts lodged on the 4th floor. As it turned out, however, a female pupil left her floor at night and went down to the boys’ floor to partake in a sexual orgy whose lurid details I prefer not to print. From the accounts of those who have watched the said video, the alleged victim actually took command of proceedings in ways that showed expertise in sexual activities. In other words, had there been no video evidence—and yet it is a tragedy that such a video should exist—the boys in question would have been tainted for life. It seems that the feminazi are not content with weaponising rape against men; they are intent on weaponising it against boys as well. What a tragedy. Like many Nigerians, I cannot buy the drugging claim. There is no possible way Chrisland pupils could have escaped with drugs at the MMIA, Lagos. First off, the Buba Marwa-led NDLEA makes drug seizures almost on a daily basis, and there is no reason to suggest that it would have failed to do so in this case. Besides, even if the delegation somehow managed to beat the MMIA security network, it would certainly not have done so in Dubai, an Islamic country noted for its anti-drugs stance. In evidence, therefore, is mischief by a parent seeking to take attention away from her monumental failure. If parents won’t train their children, it is unrealistic to expect schools to do so, especially in a climate where teachers dare not discipline them. Yes, it is true that some teachers victimise pupils/students because their parents just don’t care about them, but it is equally true that there is a growing culture of parents victimising teachers for disciplining their children. Stories of parents invading schools with thugs and giving teachers a hiding are routine. In many homes today, there are only birth mothers, not social and emotional mothers, and it is a fact that millions of children are being exposed to pornography and other vices at an early age. Pray, just how can anyone whose 10/13-year-old daughter has online pages where she posts erotic videos claim to be a mother? How can a child be allowed to open and operate a Likee page where she posts videos of her erotic dances and has over 24,000 followers?  Across the country, wealthy women who cannot stop posting pictures of their cars and houses on social media, and will never take their eyes off the young rascals parading six packs on estates, looking for lonely and morally exhausted women to devour, are ruining their children’s lives with money. King Solomon wrote: “Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.” But some parents would rather take their children down to hell with themselves. Only an utterly shameless and morally crippled parent would go after imaginary enemies instead of tearing her daughter’s bottom with whips for involvement in porn. Besides, it takes utter senselessness for parents to give school pupils iPhones. If at all they must have camera phones, such phones should come with precautions, like parents using the children’s real age while registering them on Google and adding their registered Gmail to their Google Family link. But addressing errant children while leaving their sources of influence untouched is not an honest thing to do. The fact is that most of our misbehaving children are taking their influence from social media, film, music videos and comedy skits which, let’s be honest, are often nothing but vehicles of soft porn. It is sheer stupidity to think that children don’t see the sexual contents they are exposed to daily through parental negligence. If actresses promote porn through birthday shoots, seeking to mould society in their own rotten image, just how can the children exposed to their activities fail to internalise what they see? To celebrate her so-called 44th birthday, a loud-mouthed Nollywood buffoon filled the internet with hideous pictures last year, rocking a bra and panties embellished with cowries. Actresses parading their panties seek to capture the minds of their audience with their false advertisement, never mind that they are repositories of deadly diseases, and will destroy any man unfortunate enough to date them. Indeed, these days, “actresses” is just another tag for prostitute. Public restrooms, na-me-get-my-thing buffoons who behave like half-treated lunatics and load social media with junk will take your children into pornography if you let them. Parents who fail to discipline their children and instead make excuses for them are in for a life of horror and pain. As they say in Ethiopia: “Punish a child the first time he comes home with a stolen egg. Otherwise, the day he returns home with a stolen ox, it will be too late.” Per the Bard of Avon: “Time’s the king of men; he’s both their parent, and he is their grave, and gives them what he will, not what they crave.” How true. If you love your children too much to correct them, then you will go to your grave in tears.