Stakeholders, traditional rulers and prominent citizens of Ebonyi State have been charged to support the practice that allows women and young people in decision-making and governance processes. They received the call during a one day Baseline Validation Workshop of the Ebonyi Local Government Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (LFTAS) programme held in Abakaliki, the state capital. The workshop organized by Public Enlightenment Projects and funded by USAID State2State activities to promote democratic ideals and increase citizens engagement in democratic governance was attended by stakeholders, traditional rulers and prominent members of seven LGAs of the state. The local government areas are Abakaliki, Afikpo South, Ebonyi, Ezza South, Ikwo, Ohaukwu and Ohaozara local government areas.  In her address, the Executive Director PEP, Lilian Ezenwa, noted that the training was committed to inspiring Nigerian women and young people to make contributions to the sustainable development of their communities by empowering them with information, knowledge and skills, promoting capacity building for institutional strengthening of democratic structures in national and sub-national governance. Ezenwa, however, urged the state government and the 13 local government areas of the state to enhance partnership to improve fiscal transparency and accountability. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Her words: “This programme, is in tandem with the current Ebonyi state government’s focus of improving fiscal transparency and accountability in both the state and local governments through the uptake of the open government partnership, OGP’s principles of co-creation. “Access to information and fiscal transparency will support reforms in the local governments’ public finance management and procurement practices, improve internally generated revenue, IGR, promote participatory budgeting through the uptake of the community key needs identification participatory budgeting model.” Meanwhile, the Permanent Secretaries, Ministry of Finance and Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Mrs Williams Ufon, Mrs Mojibade Akuma and Deputy Clerk of the State House of Assembly, Mrs Ugochi Okorafor, said the ministries have been piloting the transparency and accountability at the state level. They lauded PEP for the training which will assist in making things work in a transparent manner at the local government. They, however, urged the LG to imbibe it in the interest of the state.