Troops of the 34 Artillery Brigade, Nigerian Army, have neutralised a notorious gunman of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed affiliate, Eastern Security Network (ESN), in Imo. Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu stated in Abuja on Monday that the gunman was killed in an encounter at Ihioma Community in the Orlu Local Government Area of the state. Nwachukwu said troops encountered members of the separatist group who were firing sporadically at Banana Junction to enforce their illegal “sit-at-home’’ order on law-abiding citizens. According to him, on sighting the troops, the IPOB/ESN criminals withdrew in a blue Toyota Highlander towards the Ihioma community for reinforcement. “In the firefight that ensued, one of the criminals was taken out, while others fled in disarray. “Troops are combing the general area in a follow-up operation to track down the fleeing dissidents.  “Having suffered casualty and effectively denied freedom of action by the troops, the group have resorted to cheap propaganda to whip up public sentiments. “This, they have done by circulating a doctored video on the social media alleging troops’ complicity in their mindless atrocities. “This propaganda should be disregarded in its entirety,’’ Nwachukwu state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Troops neutralise IPOB/ESN gunman in Imo