April 2 has been declared the “International Day of Appreciation” by the Mediation Training Institute (MTI) Nigeria to promote national cohesion. Global accredited mediator and President, Mediation Training Institute (MTI- Nigeria), Ambassador Ogunyannwo alongside national executives of the MTI. He said the day which would promote national peace was distinct from the September 21 annual celebration of peace the United Nations Day of Peace. He said the import of the day would revolutionise Nigerians’ sense of appreciation of one another and promote national development among Nigerians at their home and the wider society. Ogunyannwo said the appreciation of one another even in politics can birth huge national development as men are genuine to themselves by their actions for change, pointing out that Nigerians are happy and appreciative people. He said today lost politicians seek office to amass wealth for themselves and their children while leaving the masses in debt through poor leadership of their states. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He called on Nigerians to love themselves by building a system that would interrogate the capacities of these aspirants ahead of 2023, so that only persons with track record of good leadership would be elected to the various elective positions to build Nigeria. “We have leaders who have thinking deficiency, they travel out and you see them behaving well, they come back and you see them misbehaving. “Part of what I expect to be done to our leaders is to screen them properly even their mental state. Some of them are normal, you see the way they behave, you wonder if they are normal, that person you are seeing today as a stranger is your unknown cousin, you are yet to have met. “In a country where you have over 250 ethnic groups, you must be sensitive to those differences among us by appreciating, and asking what if and am in the other person’s shoes. “Anybody going into any elective position, let there be a form they fill, to track some of these things that make them become effective leaders. “Another thing is to let them go in to serve. The way they are behaving does not show that they want to serve when they are going in. “If you are going to serve people, why should it be a do or die affair? Even when they are there, they have a thinking deficiency. The MTI Nigeria President was flanked by other members of the executives, Mrs Clementina Okolo, Mr Lloyd Duru, and Mr Ayita Oluwafisayo. Speaking further on leadership appreciation of the Nigerian State and the opportunity it offered politicians to better the country through good leadership, Ambassador Clementina Okolo urged politicians to ensure that they secure Nigeria and its people. 