As many entrepreneurs have sprouted up and are making efforts to expand their frontiers with new innovations and inventions, the world is only a step closer to becoming a place where things are made easy through technological advancement. With the fast rise in the number of businesses and the need to stay relevant in world space, these young entrepreneurs are creating a niche for themselves while offering the best of their skills and services in a world where only the best thrive. Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Creatrix Empire, Afrobeatsglobal, ZEDesigns, and Uncut Xtra Magazine, Emmanuel Alade is on of such individuals who is making bold moves as a serial entrepreneur, successfully running several lines of businesses. The Nigerian UK based architect is a graduate of the University of Portsmouth and Oxford Brookes University who obtained his Bachelor and Masters degree in Architecture respectively. With his several years of experience and expertise gathered on the job, Alade has been considered as one of the best in the game. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Emmanuel Alade who has established two of the strongest brands in the African space, Afrobeatsglobal and Uncut Xtra which were borne out of his passion and dream to impact lives of people around him as well as the desire to give back to the society. Speaking with Tribune Online, stated that “My dream has always been to live a life of impact. My passion for success and my desire to see others succeed is what birthed what everyone can see today. I’m already known in my field and I’ve accomplished a lot in record time, but I’m not satisfied and that’s what birthed the initiative of creating platforms that would build others up in their careers and set them on the global stage, hence the establishment of Afrobeatsglobal and other platforms that I have to my credit,” he said. A good record of his projects are Eblana project in Dublin, Abbey Street Project in Dublin, Anthony & Roderick project in London, Mothercare project in London, Hounslow West Project in London.