THE service unit of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has launched a service charter and customer care policy handbook. The launch took place recently at the NSC headquarters in Apapa, Lagos. The Executive Secretary of the Council, Emmanuel Jime said it is when people are aware of what they expect in terms of obligations and services that they measure their performance. The NSC boss was represented at the event by the Director, Regulatory Services Department of the Council, Ifeoma Ezedinma. He commended servicom unit for the concerted effort the staff put into ensuring good service delivery to the council and its stakeholders, adding that the newly-launched service charter would further enhance service delivery. The National Coordinator of Servicom, Nnena Akajemeli commended past and present nodal officers of the NSC for the publication of the service charter and customer care policy handbook. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.