Federal College of Education (FCE), Akoka, has yesterday matriculated five hundred and twenty-eight (528) students into both National Certificate in Education (NCE) and Professional Diploma in Education programmes for the 2021/2022 academic session. The National Certificate in Education (NCE) is comprised of 458 students while 70 students are matriculated into Professional Diploma in Education. Speaking at the matriculation ceremony on Thursday in Lagos, the Provost of the College, Dr Wahab Azeez urged the students to exhibit discipline, loyalty, honesty and good character at all times. The Provost told them to avoid wasting their energy in pursuit of unlawful acts or destructive union activities that are tantamount to misplaced priorities and contributing to lowering of standards of Education. He, therefore, enjoined them to combine both academic and moral excellence throughout their stay as a student at the College. Wahab stated that the students should refrain from all acts which are contrary to the rules and regulations of the College in order not to jeopardize the realization of your life ambitions  “As students, you are expected to exhibit discipline, loyalty, honesty and good character at all times during your stay in the College. “Avoid wasting your energy in pursuit of unlawful acts or destructive union activities that are tantamount to misplaced priorities and contributing to lowering of standards of Education. “It is, therefore, advised that you combine both academic and moral excellence throughout your stay as a student in the College. “You should refrain from all acts which are contrary to rules and regulations of the College in order not to jeopardize the realization of your life ambitions; these unsavoury acts include examination misconduct, admission fraud, certificate forgery, cultism, fighting, theft, extortion, rape, illicit drug dealings, membership of unlawful secret cults and societies and so on,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… FCE Akoka matriculates 528 students We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… FCE Akoka matriculates 528 students