As the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Dr Yerima Peter Tarfa, retired from the Federal Civil Service, the Ministry is expected to get his replacement in the next few weeks. Speaking on behalf of the management and staff, the Director, Reforms Coordination, Dr John Magbadelo, said the retiring Permanent Secretary represented a rallying point in the Ministry, knitting everyone together and drawing everybody together and channelling their energy purposefully for better service. He described Dr Tarfa as cerebral, meticulous, articulate and affable gentleman, who carried out his functions and rendered service with passion and immense commitment, with an eye on excellence and perfection. He also described him as a transformational leader, who brought positive changes to the Ministry, which evidence could be seen “across the length and breadth of the Ministry’s landscape, from the headquarters, zonal offices and state offices, to the ongoing efforts at re-modelling the 37 skill acquisition centres across the country.” Magbadelo also noted that Tarfa initiated an award scheme in the Ministry to celebrate and encourage deserving officers, adding that the initiative resulted in the conferment of Service Award on sixteen officers of different cadres last year. He noted that Tarfa’s easy relationship with the Labour Minister, Dr Chris Ngige and the Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, “greatly enhanced leadership effectiveness in the Ministry.” He described the emotion of the members of staff as a mix of sadness and joy. “Sadness, because a very engaging servant leader, counsellor, transformational leader and result-oriented public servant is ending his tour of service. Joy, because he served Nigeria creditably and meritoriously at different platforms in the country’s public service.” Magbadelo commended the retiring Permanent Secretary for the creative and responsive leadership he provided the Ministry and wished him a successful retirement. In their testimonials, the management and staff commended him for his professionalism, thoroughness and uncommon passion for his work, as well as his sense of camaraderie and easy-going relationship with management and staff. In reminiscing on individual interactions with the retiring Permanent Secretary, the staff appreciated his mentorship, acceptance and indulgence, patience, and exceptional inter-personal relationship with subordinates. In his response, Dr Tarfa, advised the top management level staff to always apply professionalism in the conduct of government business. He noted that the real work and implementation of government policies were done at departmental levels, enjoining them to employ logic and proper work ethics in their duties and always put service first.