Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State on Wednesday presented brand new vehicles to the newly appointed judges in the state, saying they deserve a better life. The governor, in a brief ceremony at the Governor’s Office open field, handed over the keys to the vehicles to the State Chief Judge, Justice Akon Ikpeme. “I’m here with the Chief Judge of Cross River state, Justice Akon Ikpeme. I am here to make a presentation to our judicial officers, the vehicles that befit their status because I have seen that the Nigerian judiciary is a dependable arm of government, an arm of government that gives hope to the common man, an arm of government that dispenses justice,” Governor Ayade said. Speaking further, the governor told Justice Ikpeme that the presentation of the vehicles afforded him another opportunity to once again, on behalf of the government and people of Cross River state, thank the judiciary for dispensing justice without fear or favour.  “I am particularly happy and I am using this opportunity to express my gratitude to the Nigerian judiciary for standing on the side of the law, by standing with the truth. “Against this background, the people of Cross River State want to show appreciation to the judiciary. On behalf of the government and people of Cross River state, I hereby present these jeeps and cars to you.” Responding, the Chief Judge of the state commended the governor for the gesture and pledged the judiciary’s commitment to justice delivery. “Your Excellency, with joy, on behalf of the judiciary, I receive the keys to these brand new vehicles. I want to say that on behalf of the judiciary, I appreciate this gesture. “We have new judges and you have thought and deemed it fit to give them these cars. We thank you very much and on our side, we will continue to work for the betterment of the state as far as justice delivery is concerned,” she declared. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ayade presents vehicles  Ayade presents vehicles Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ayade presents vehicles  Ayade presents vehicles