Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State has organised a two-day retreat for appointees serving under him and other senior officials of the Anambra State government. Tribune Online gathered that the retreat which started, on Friday, will also continue on Saturday. The governor said the reason for the retreat was to bring them up to speed about what was required of them in serving the public. Soludo said he aims at getting them to internalise the core vision of his administration, in order to be able to function well. Those involved in the retreat are; commissioners, special advisers, heads of agencies/parastatals, permanent secretaries and key aides in his government. Former governor of Lagos State and current Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola, was on ground to drill the appointees on the rudiments of public service. Soludo said: “I am most grateful to our resource person for today, His Excellency, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola, for availing us his wealth of experience as a former governor of Lagos State, who led mind-blowing public sector reforms in the centre of excellence.”  “For me, it is important that every member of the team internalises the vision, and sees the task of providing a liveable and prosperous homeland for Anambra, as a collective responsibility.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Fashola in Anambra, as Soludo holds retreat for Commissioners, Advisers, others Fashola in Anambra, as Soludo holds retreat for Commissioners, Advisers, others 