THE Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), in its Easter message, has stressed the height of impunity and selfishness in the country, lamenting government’s inability to manage the country’s population and provide economic and social leadership needed to better the life of the citizens and development. “China and India, with over a billion population, are making progress and are among the leading countries in the world today. Meanwhile, Nigeria cannot manage a mere 200 million of her citizens,” TUC President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, said. Contained in a press statement made available to journalists in Abuja, Comrade Olaleye, said, “The reason the country is in a mess today is because we have allowed trivial issues like ethnicity and religion to take control and disrupt critical developmental goals.” While he urged Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of sacrifice, love and peace that the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ represent, the TUC president also said its only such virtues of love and peace can strengthen the citizens to surmount the numerous challenges facing the country. “This is a moment of sober reflection and it is not a mere coincidence that the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ is happening at a time our Muslim brethren are also observing their fast. It suggests that God is interested in healing our country,” he added. Comrade Olaleye reiterated that this is not the country of our dream, noting that impunity, selfishness, cronyism, religious intolerance and nepotism have created division in the whole country.  “It has never been this bad, but we all have a role to play if we must overcome these challenges at hand. When we reflect on Easter it should remind us that as a country that we need to be truthful, upright, honest and fear God. We must understand that our purpose in life here is to live in obedience to our Creator’s will and love one another. “Easter offers us the opportunity to rethink the very essence of our humanity. We call on the government to address the worsening state of insecurity, poverty, unemployment, senseless waste of human lives currently going on to allow the needed transformation in the country,” he noted.