Former President Goodluck Jonathan has told supporters pressuring him to declare for the 2023 presidential race to watch out what will happen soon. Speaking to scores of persons who besieged his Maitama Abuja office on Friday to urge him to run, he said he could not immediately tell them if he would join the race. The supporters, who had posters of the former president with different inscriptions calling on him to contest, chanted his name and sang in his praises. Jonathan, however, called for patience, saying that he could not immediately tell them what he would do. He said: “I cannot declare because some processes are still ongoing. “Yes, you are calling on me to come and declare for the next election, I cannot tell you I’m declaring. The political process is ongoing; just watch out. The key role you must play is that Nigeria must get somebody that will carry young people along.”  Speaking for the supporters under the aegis of Youth Compatriots of Nigeria, Mayor Samuel regretted that they had been deceived in 2015. He added: “We were deceived and brainwashed by those who claimed they could do it in 2015. “Now, we know better, under Jonathan the minimum wage could buy one or two bags of rice. What do we have today? We are begging President Jonathan to forgive us, we have realised our mistakes, and we want him back to complete what he started.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Watch what will happen  Watch what will happen Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Watch what will happen  Watch what will happen