Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has enjoined Muslims in the country to use the last 10 days of the ongoing Ramadan fasting to pray for positive change in the current state of the nation for Allah’s divine intervention. The Governor was speaking when he attended a Tafsir session organized by Jama’atu Izalatil Bid’ah Wa Iqamatis-sunnah (JIBWIS) founded by Ash-Sheikh Isma’il Idris Ibn Zakariya Jos at Izala No.1 Jumu’at Mosque, Layin ‘Yan Goro, Gombe. The Governor also appreciated the efforts of Izala Organization in the propagation of Islam and inculcating good morals in the people, the gesture that he noted, has contributed immensely in building a saner society. Inuwa Yahaya observed that, “Activities of Izala Organization are in tandem with our policies and programmes of inculcating good morals and values, especially in youths. This has really helped our government a lot in discharging it’s duties”. The governor thanked the presiding cleric, Sheikh Musa Salihu Alburhan for taking his time to come and preside over this year’s Ramadan Tafsir in Gombe. Speaking on the purpose of the visit, the Governor said that, “we made it a habit that every Ramadan, we visit places of tafsir to gain from the blessings of Qur’an and solicit for prayers for the state and the country at large.  Speaking on the efforts his government is making towards improving the lives of the people, the Governor explained that upon assumption of office, he met great financial challenges on ground, but with God’s intervention and sincere prayers from the people, his government was able to put things in order and execute meaningful projects that have direct bearing on the common man. Inuwa Yahaya also said that, “the spirit behind the establishment of the Muhammadu Buhari Industrial park in Dadin-kowa was to create job opportunities that will cater for the teeming unemployed youths in the state, which in turn will help in reducing crimes and boosting the economy of the state and the entire north east region. According to him, “Currently, work has reached an advanced stage, and three out of hundreds of interested companies that indicated their interests to invest will start putting their structures at the park very soon”. The Governor then promised to do everything possible to revive industries and boost businesses, as government along cannot provide employment to the people. “As someone who appreciates the role of private sector in economic development, I will insha Allah do everything possible to revive the sector so that Gombe can rub shoulders with other developed states in the country”, the Governor assured. He then appealed to the Muslim Ummah to commit the state and the country into prayers, especially during the last ten days of Ramadan considering the enormous challenges the country is facing. Earlier speaking, the scholar presiding over the tafsir, Sheikh Musa Salihu Alburhan expressed his appreciation to the governor for the visit, describing it as an honor to the organization and its entire members. Sheikh Alburhan congratulated the people of Gombe State for having such a caring leader, saying it is a blessing from Allah, the Almighty. “People of Gombe should be grateful to Allah for blessing them with a leader that has his people at heart. You should all be grateful for this, because when you are grateful with Allah’s favours He will definitely give you more”, he said. The Shaikh specifically praised the rare zeal of the governor on human capital and infrastructural development, describing him as a leader with foresight and focus. He cited the construction of Muhammadu Buhari Industrial park in Dadinkowa , completion of Mega motor park, provision of solar-powered street lights as well as construction of roads across the state as projects that directly impact positively on the lives of people at the grassroots. Sheikh Alburhan further advised people of Gombe state to support Governor Yahaya with prayers for more wisdom and guidance in discharging his duties. “Success of a leaders is a success of the society and his failure is also theirs” he noted. The scholar cautioned the Muslims against any act of baseless criticism or using abusive language against their leaders as it is totally condemnable in Islam stressing that, “any society or group that plans to see the failure of it leaders, is surely digging it’s own grave”. He reaffirmed the support of the organization under the stewardship of Sheikh Muhammadu Sani Yahaya Jingir to the Governor for the love he has for his people and his zeal for development. Sheikh Alburhan advised the governor not to get distracted from his good intentions as a results of baseless criticisms against some of his policies by the oppositions The Sheikh prayed to Allah to give the governor more wisdom and protection as he leads the state to the promise land. Dr Bala Bello Tinka, an APC stalwart who also spoke during the visit, cautioned people to be wary of bad politicians who are hell bent on spoiling the progress Gombe State made so far just to quench their thirst for power, maintaining that the collective interest of the people is bigger than political interest of anybody. Governor Inuwa Yahaya was accompanied to the Tafsir Session by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Siddi Buba, Commissioners and Special Advisers as contained in a statement by Ismaila Uba Misilli, Director-General, ( Press Affairs)
Government House, Gombe.