The Olufi of Gbongan, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adetoyese Babayemi, has prayed for the success of the presidential aspiration of Olufemi Ajadi when the aspirant paid him a homage visit. Ajadi visited the Olufi and other chiefs of Gbongan for a brief meeting at the palace without a large entourage. Gbongan is the hometown of Olufemi Ajadi’s grandmother and the visitation to the town was based on a special meeting with the Oba; chiefs on the discussion of social infrastructure and other developmental needs in the town. After the meeting, Pastor Johnson Moses, who had earlier led the Olupinmi family and Ajadi’s entourage from the entrance of the town to the palace, told the king of Ajadi’s presidential ambition, adding that he would be back for an official declaration. Olufi told Ajadi that his family should not be forgotten even though the lineage of the mother side in Yoruba land is not well acknowledged by the sons of the family. He said, however, that victory or success of an individual could come from any of the lineages, be it from the mother’s side or father’s side, adding that his prayer for Ajadi is to triumph in his political career.  “I wish you well in your political career and your presence at Olufi’s day on the 7th May would be highly recognized,” he said. Ajadi said his main objective in Gbongan town is to build a university as he felt that he who supports education thinks well of his nation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun monarch prays  Osun monarch prays Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun monarch prays  Osun monarch prays