The management of the Lower Niger River Basin Development Authority (LNRBDA) has revealed its contribution towards solving transportation challenges faced by farmers. In an interview with journalists in Ilorin, the Managing Director of the authority, Dr Adeniyi Saheed Aremu, disclosed that transportation of food has been one of the factors responsible for food shortage in the country, hence, the authority constructed a number of access roads in both urban and rural settlements. He added, “Some of those roads in the rural areas link the farm sites to the towns to help farmers convey their produce to the nearest markets to prevent post-harvest losses thereby improving the livelihood of the farmers and ensuring food sufficiency.” Dr Aremu also said that the authority had in 2017 also established a greenhouse for the production of assorted vegetables under a controlled environment. A herd of cattle is being raised for fattening and dairies.  Meanwhile, in a bid to give farmers a good platform for productivity, the agency has also carried out about 60 projects ranging from dam construction, boreholes drilling and Flood and Erosion Control Works in different localities under its coverage. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.LNRBDA solving farmers’ food transportation challenge, says MD LNRBDA solving farmers’ food transportation challenge, says MD