Delta State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Isaiah Bozimo Esq, has decried the rate parents of rape victims flood his office with applications for withdrawal of such cases. He said the most worrisome aspect was that those committing the act were on the increase, wondering how such a crime can be nipped in the bud if parents of victims who are supposed to be on the same page with prosecuting authorities continue to display a nonchalant attitude towards a grievous crime as rape. Bozimo, however, resolved that the ministry will continue to pursue such cases to their logical conclusions so long there are strong evidence to do so; advising victims or their parents to come forward whenever such happens. The Attorney General made the remarks in his office during a media parley with the Indigenous Correspondents Chapel (ICC) of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Delta State Council. He said that the ministry was more than ever before ready to discharge one of its mandates of prosecuting those who run fouls of the law on behalf of the government. The Commissioner explained that he holds the media in high esteem because of the critical functions it performs in society.  He promised a robust partnership with the chapel to ensure that all activities of the ministry are not only publicized but with a simplified language used to convey such a message to the general public. Earlier in his welcome speech, the Chairman of ICC, Comrade Andrew Emephia, said the parley became necessary not only to seek answers to some pertinent and nagging questions but to seek partnership between both organisations. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 