The leadership crisis rocking the Ondo State Chapter of the Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), turned bloody on Monday, as ten members of the union were injured during a fracas in Akure, the state capital. It was gathered some hoodlums numbering 50 stormed the Ondo road motor park, Akure in buses, went on a rampage, injuring some members of the union who belong to the other faction. The hoodlums who also visited other motor parks in the city spread to other parts while residents scampered for safety while shops and stalls were hurriedly closed to avoid looting and disrupting vehicular activities. Those macheted reportedly sustained various degrees of injuries as a result of the machete cut and were rushed to the state general hospital in Akure for medical attention. It was also gathered that a faction of the union is against the imposition of the former State Chairman of the union, Jacob Adebo, last week kicked against the government’s plan to suspend the union’s activities and bring Adebo through the back door. This is coming a few hours after the State Government announced the suspension of the union and inaugurated a 21 member State Motor Parks Management Committee led by the former State Chairman of the union, Adebo. The State Government said the unresolved crisis within the union called for a new committee and decided to take over all the public motor parks in the state and set up a committee to administer the same. In a statement signed by the Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr Kenneth Odusola Stevenson said that the government noted the unfortunate unending crisis and litigation involving the union in court which has adversely affected activities in the public motor parks in the state. He said that the government, therefore, has decided to take over all the public motor parks in the state and set up a committee to administer the same. The union’s activities in public parks in the state are accordingly suspended. Meanwhile, members of a faction of the union have kicked against the suspension of the activities of the union in the state, describing the state government action as a ploy to truncate the course of justice. The faction in a letter of protest by its counsel, Akinyemi Omoware said, “The NURTW is not a mere registered association or a group of people that can be suspended at the whim and caprices of any person in government or persons holding political powers. “Should any member of the committee accost and or attempt to forcefully take over the affairs of our client, same would be met with equal resistance. “lt is a Union created by Trade Union Act, a federal enactment and therefore with statutory flavour.” It will be recalled that the union had last weekend alleged the State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, of planning to impose the former Chairman of the union, Comrade Jacob Adebo. The State Government, subsequently announced the suspension of the union, while a management committee led by Jacob Adebo was set up to oversee the affairs of public parks in the state. The union said the management committee set up by the government was a deliberate ploy to truncate the course of justice and the need for restraint. “We are therefore calling your office to abate every wrongful exercise of political powers to truncate legitimate yarning for justice and rule of law. “It is needless to state that the conduct of your Excellency in totally disregarding the judicial process is by overt and necessary implication calling for the rule of might and brigandage traditionally known with NURTW. “As a civilized people, we have advised our clients against self-help, confrontation and the use of might; which is the direct consequence of your Excellency’s action. “It is therefore requested of your esteemed office to restrain your committee members from causing strife, chaos, commotion and taking steps that can lead to break down of peace, law and order in Ondo State. “Should your office do otherwise, we shall call on the general public to hold your office, as the Acting Governor of Ondo State responsible for the untoward consequence of these atrocious actions. “Going by the above backdrop, it is incumbent on your office, as a constitutional government to restrain the committee to wait for the court’s determination of the pending suit to preserve the sanctity of the court and the constitution your Excellency sworn to uphold. “We do hope that your Excellency, being a product of democracy, will toe the line of peace, democracy and justice in allowing the court to do its work rather than taking steps that are subjudice and consequently portray the court as a weak and irrelevant institution. We do hope that your Excellency will allow good counsel to prevail.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE