Ahead of the July 16 date for the Osun State governorship election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday, recognised Adedamola Adeleke as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) when it released what it called the final list of the 15 governorship candidates and their running mates, eligible for the exercise. The list sighted by Tribune Online featured prominently the names of incumbent Osun state governor and candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Adegboyega Isiaka Oyetola, his running mate, Benedict Olugboye Alabi. Also cleared as eligible for the contest was the People’s Democratic Party candidate, Adedamola Jackson Nurudeeen Adeleke, his running mate, Kola Adegboyega Adewusi and thirteen other candidates. A statement signed by Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of the Commission enjoined any political party which observes that the names of its candidate were missing to notify INEC not later than 90 days before the election.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The statement read in part:” On Friday 25th March 2022, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) published the personal particulars and list of candidates (Form EC9) for the Osun State Governorship election in our State and Local Government offices as required by law. “In compliance with the Electoral Act 2022, the Commission hereby publishes the final list of candidates for the election following the close of nominations by political parties. “The Commission wishes to remind political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act 2022, any party that observes that the name of its candidate is missing from the list “shall notify the Commission in writing, signed by its National Chairman and Secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election. “Furthermore, the attention of parties is drawn to Section 32(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, which provides that failure to notify the Commission “shall not be ground to invalidate the election. “The final list is published in our State and Local Government offices in Osun State as well as our website and social media platforms for public information as required by law. “Political parties are enjoined to note the provision of the law for compliance.”