As the 2023 general election draws near, many observers have said they are keenly watching and waiting to see the outcome of the recent public declarations of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and its counterpart, the Trade Union Congress (TUC), to productively participate in the enthronement of a new political leadership of the country. CHRISTIAN APPOLOS writes. On March 3, 2022, the Nigeria Labour Congress held what it termed Nigeria Working People’s Political Conference, in Abuja. Notable among the attendees were former INEC Chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega, immediate past governor of Edo State who is also former President of NLC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, among many other top politicians, labour leaders within and outside Nigeria and others. Being part of its mapped out activities to deepen its commitment to be a strong power broker in the 2023 general elections having publicised its intentions through different media channels, NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said, “Our determination is that in the run-up to the 2023 elections, we must not allow professional politicians to evade critical questions of national development. “This is why we have developed a Workers Charter of Demands. Our Charter of Demands prioritises equity, fairness and social justice. Our Charter of Demands asks for free and quality education to tertiary levels for every Nigerian child. “Our Charter of Demands insists that every Nigerian should access free and quality healthcare. Our Charter of Demands makes the argument for the kind of restructuring that brings sustainable development to Nigerians currently struggling with the crumbs. Our Charter of Demand posits that politicians should no longer be allowed to send their kids to schools abroad or treat their sicknesses in foreign hospitals while the children of the poor are trapped in endless strikes and poor medical facilities which their failed leadership has imposed on all of us. “Our Charter of Demands also makes a strong case for decent work for Nigerian workers. We are saying that those who contribute to productivity and wealth creation must be the first partakers of their toil and sweat. We are demanding that instead of criminalising picketing and strikes, politicians should criminalise non-payment of salaries and refusal to honour collective bargaining agreements just as the case currently is with the ongoing strike in our universities. “Our Charter promotes decent work conditions for workers including equal pay for work of equal value, training, predictable promotion and affordable housing close to workers’ places of work. We have also made a case for prompt payment of pension and other retirement benefits to our aged pensioners and the protection of all trade union rights. “Our Charter of Demands lampoons and seeks remedy to the lazy rentier mentality of extracting our natural resources in their crude form and shipping them abroad for processing and then importing the finished products at greater cost to Nigerians.” On his part, the TUC President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, at the event of the Congress’ ‘Political Roundtable on Sustainable Democracy in Nigeria,’ said, “The organised Labour is capable of enthroning social democracy in Nigeria. We can bring governance closer to the people. “It has become glaring that constant labour agitations either in form of street protests or strikes cannot guarantee decent work, good governance and social justice in a political environment that is self-serving and insensitive to the plight of the workers and citizens in general. “There is the need for a platform that has the dual role of political education and electoral participation. There need to organise town hall meetings and advocacy programmes on active political participation of Nigerian workers and citizens in the states and local governments of the federation. “All Nigerian workers and eligible citizens yet to obtain their permanent voter cards should do so without further delay. Hence, advocacy will be stepped up in this regard. There is the need to identify and canvass eligible voters who have voter’s apathy and discourage such attitude through groundswell political sensitisation across the country. The Congress will utilise the media especially social media, campaign flyers and posters and other devices in its political education programmes.” These key lines ushered in many explanations given by the two leaders of the labour unions with regards to their focus and proposed achievements in the forthcoming general elections. In his thoughts as an observer, Chief Emenike Ubani, a Mass Communication lecturer with the Abia State University, in a phone chat said, “Personally, I am keenly watching and waiting to see the outcome of NLC and TUC proclaimed interest and what they  intend to achieve in the end. They may have in the past gotten their due rights from the government or not. They may have lost their respect in the sight of the Nigerian government and citizens owing to their failure to stand firm on their demands or not. But if they make a caricature of themselves in this their proposed intentions, Nigerian politicians will bury them totally. “It is understandable that what they seek is to serve the interest of their members and Nigerians by extension. However, the actions that follow their publicly expressed interest will determine what they will get in the end. Unfortunately the NLC and TUC of the present seem to have so much to do that no one, even their members are less gingered to be truly identified with the labour movement. “I don’t subscribe to the notion that they started late. There is no better time than now, but actions must be matched with words. I pray they are poised to see their intentions and pronouncements through. Though a look at the back shows that the labour movement seems to have lost its vigour like an old woman. Nigerian citizens must wake up to augment the efforts of the organised labour. “It is not right for us as citizens to sit in the comfort of our homes and expect and keep expecting NLC and TUC to do everything for us. Citizens should protest against fuel price increase, rising price of food stuffs in the market. Incessant increase of electricity tariff and so on. Nigerians should collaborate with the organised labour to ensure that their choice of leadership in the country’s political space stands. I am willing to do my part, I also call on others to do their part.” Also, Mrs Susan Musa, a Civil Servant said, “I was very happy when I read in the newspaper in my office that NLC and TUC want to seriously engage in political activities in the coming 2023 elections. I know their intentions will not be easy to achieve because of how politics is played in Nigeria but I believe they can make a difference if they are really serious. In fact, because of them, I went and registered and got my PVC. As a Civil Servant, I want the best for Nigeria and I will follow the directive of NLC and TUC regarding elections and voting.” A Personal Assistant to a Senator from the Southwest, Oyewale (surname withheld), said, “Nigerians usually rely on NLC and TUC to challenge the government and make demands for the rights of the citizens. Nigerians should wake up from their docile attitude and start taking actions. The citizens should demand and protest as seen and done in other countries. I am fully in support of any productive actions NLC and TUC will take for the sake of a better Nigeria starting from the 2023 elections.” Mr Livenus Saint, a journalist practicing in Abuja, on his part said, “We have not seen much the organised labour has achieved in the recent past. I cannot judge them because the rest of Nigerians and even the politicians, especially the opposition parties, are not doing anything serious to challenge the government against many policies that have ruined our country – security, economy and social wise. “However, I am watching to see what they are really up to. This is because lately in Nigeria, people are just using the media to make noise. Many social and what have you groups in Nigeria are just making noise for the sake of it. So we watch, wait and see what happens.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 