Bandits have attacked some villages in Kagarko Local Government Area of Kaduna State and killed the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Aribi award, Mr Illiya Auta. It was gathered that the hoodlums stormed the village on Monday night where they carried out the attacks. Even though sources could not confirm how many people were killed during the raid but one of the victims of the attack was an APC stalwart in Aribi Ward. “We lost our ward Chairman, Illiya Auta who was killed by the bandits during the raid,” he declared. It was gathered that dozens of other villagers were kidnapped and hundreds of animals stolen by the bandits. Recall, that Kaduna has been on the radar as a result of attacks by bandits or terrorists. The most recent was the kidnapped of a woman and her daughter on Sunday in Kachia’s Local Government Area of the state.  At the time of filing the report, there was no official reaction from the party or to the police. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Bandits kill APC Chairman in Kaduna