Iyabo Ojo is a famous Nollywood actress, producer, TikTok sensation, brand influencer, serial entrepreneur, among other endeavours. Ojo is divorced and a mother of two. When Showmax recently announced her as one of the cast members of The Real Housewives Of Lagos, several reactions positioned her as one to watch on the show. She told FRIDAY TREAT about what fans should expect from the show, in a recent interview. What attracted you to this franchise and how did you feel when you got it? It’s the exposure for me and having to know more people, meet more people, and interact with more ladies like myself. I was also super excited to join the cast because I wasn’t expecting it to come through. I was just super excited, and I couldn’t wait to meet everyone else. I was so nosy and wanted to know who the housewives were. In your own words, what does it mean to be a Real Housewife of Lagos? It means you have to be either married, have kids, or be a hardworking lady—a force to reckon with, a fashion icon and just a lovely person. Can you describe your style? My style is very casual, very me. I have a busy schedule, so I always like to dress very comfortably. Even when I’m casually dressed, I want to add a bit of fashion. So, I’m casually dressed but at the same time not too simple in case I need to go somewhere unplanned. But I am always all glam and sexy on the red carpet. Who in your life knows you the best and why? My children know me best. They’ve been with me forever. I’m very transparent, like an open book, and I don’t hide my feelings. I’m also very blunt, and so they know me. They know the good side and bad side. They know everything about me. Even when I try to hide my feelings from the public, I can never hide them from my children. They’ve seen me at every point in my life, especially as they grow. When they were much younger, I kept a lot of pain away from them because I was all about teaching them love and wanted them to be comfortable in themselves. I didn’t want them to feel or carry anybody’s pain or disappointment. I hid a lot of myself when they were growing up, but as they became teenagers, I started allowing them to see many things and get to know a lot of me. I wanted to make sure they won’t run away from me. I have achieved that, especially with my girl-child. We’re so close, and she tells me things that amaze me. I love it! What is the hardest part about being in front of the cameras? The hardest part of being in front of the camera is trying not to make mistakes or say things you’re not supposed to say. You’re very careful with your words because sometimes, what you say may be different from what you’re trying to explain and how the audience will interpret it. It happened to me a lot. I say some things, and people are like, “oh, she said this”, which was not what I meant. But it gets better, and you get used to it. What are you 100 per cent about? I’m 100 per cent authentic about my life. I’m not 100 per cent real about my relationship, though. I’m keeping that private and I have my reasons for that. So that, in case we break up, people won’t count it. Apart from that, I’m 100 per cent real about every other thing. What has been your highlight since you started shooting The Real Housewives Of Lagos? My highlight and funniest moment since we started shooting was when I was trying to get into the pool. You need to watch that video. I was so afraid because I have a fear of water. I really didn’t know how to swim, and that was very funny for me because that was real. I was terrified. But I got into the water, eventually. Why should audiences watch? What makes RHOLagos unique? They need to watch this show because they get to see the real me. My fans will know that I’m not all trouble. They get to see the natural and fun part of me. You get to see more of me because I tried to be as authentic as possible. So, they get to understand me. What can get Iyabo angry, and what cannot get her angry? What she likes and doesn’t like. You get to see all the other ladies too. I didn’t know many of them and their kind of personality until the show started. You’ll see drama, glamour, and fashion. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Real Housewives of Lagos  Real Housewives of Lagos Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Real Housewives of Lagos Real Housewives of Lagos