The National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd), has emphasized the need for collaboration, capacity building, and information sharing to ensure a safe and resilient cyber ecosystem for Nigeria. Monguno stated this while speaking at the ninth meeting of the Cybercrime Advisory Council held in Abuja where he directed additional cybersecurity sensitisation for stakeholders, and launched Cybersecurity Toolkits for MSMEs. He equally charged relevant agencies on cybersecurity resilience and preparedness. This is contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by Mallam Zakari Usman, the head of the Strategic Communication Office of the National Security Adviser. According to the statement, “the Cybercrime Advisory Council meeting updated members on activities and events since the 8th Meeting of the Council in compliance with the National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy (NCPS) 2021 and the provisions of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention etc) Act 2015. “The council was briefed on the successful completion of seven sector-based sensitisation workshops by the Office of the National Security Adviser between September – December 2021 and informed stakeholders of two additional sector-based sensitisation workshops on the implementation of the National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy for critical organizations scheduled between May to June 2022. “The Cybercrime Advisory Council was also briefed on the launching of Cybersecurity Toolkits for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) by ONSA in collaboration with the United Kingdom Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) aimed at protecting MSMEs from cyber threats. “The pilot launch of the toolkit in February 2022 was conducted with over 200 SMEs in attendance, while the main launch of the toolkit is scheduled for 5 April 2022. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The Council was further informed that the toolkits will be available for use to protect online activities of over 41 million MSMEs that operate in Nigeria.On Protection Plan for Critical National Information Infrastructure. “The Council was briefed on measures to protect telecommunications assets and ongoing efforts to sensitise state governments on emerging threats. Council was further informed of 2 workshops conducted on Critical National Information Infrastructure Protection in collaboration with the United Kingdom FCDO, and a capacity building workshop held from January 31 to February 1, 2022 on the development of a National Cybersecurity Risk Assessment. “The Office of the National Security Adviser informed members of ongoing gap analysis to identify capacity deficit amongst relevant law enforcement agencies pursuant to the Cybercrimes Act 2015 to guide future capacity-building efforts.” It added that as part of measures to address emerging cyber threats heightened by the Russia-Ukraine crisis, it had increased its routine monitoring activities and advisories to relevant stakeholders and held sectoral Computer Security Incidents Response Teams meeting on 29 March 2022 to facilitate incident management coordination, enhance reporting and strengthen information-sharing mechanism. According to it, the meeting received several reports from sub-committees and also approved the establishment of a committee to facilitate the amendment of the Cybercrime Act 2015.