THE need for unity among Muslims ahead of next year’s general election was at the hearts of submissions of speakers at this year’s edition of the annual Ramadan lecture of the Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN), Oyo State chapter. The guest lecturer, Professor Sabit Olagoke, at the programme held at the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS), Basorun, Ibadan, underlined the importance of Muslims to be united ahead of next year’s elections and be actively involved in the electoral process. Speaking on the topic ‘2023 General Election and the Role of Muslims’, Olagoke, who is the founder of Shafaudeen in Islam, urged Muslims  to be change agents and urged all Nigerians to strive to overcome poverty which he described as the instrument mostly used by politicians to deceive the masses during election. In a goodwill message, the Arole Iba Oluyole of Ibadanland, Alhaji Nureni Akanbi, called for the election of leaders who are ready to work and address the myriads of challenges confronting the country.  In a remark, the state chairman of the MMPN, Alhaji Ridwan Fasasi, stated that Muslims have the strength, number and wherewithal to determine the direction of next year’s elections but the missing link is unity among them. Fasasi said: “No doubt, Muslims are major stakeholders in the Nigeria project. Their duty to ensure good governance is enormous while keeping silent is dangerous in all ramifications. Therefore, it is high time Muslims were united. With unity, we will rewrite history.” “In fact, there have been politicking and ‘politricking’ ahead of the 2023 elections whereas only Allah has the sovereignty of installing a leader. “Muslims have the gold and must prepare adequately for the elections to ensure fairness as no Muslim from the southern part of the country has occupied the number one position or even the number two position in the country since independence.” Alhaji Kehinde Olaosebikan, a former Chief Press Secretary to a former governor of Oyo State, the late Alhaji Lamidi Adesina, said Muslims must play active roles in mobilising and sensitising others for all electoral activities, including collection of Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs), joining political parties and ensuring support for Muslim aspirants. The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun, who was represented by the Director of Research and Documentation in the ministry, Alhaji AbdulFatai Oyedeji echoed the need for Muslims to be active participants in the electoral process.