Governor Bello Mohammed has distributed 260 cars to all the traditional rulers in the state just as he commissioned the ultra-modern headquarters of the state Council of Ulama in the state. The distribution and commissioning was performed by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar 111 at the Government House in Gusau on Wednesday. The Sultan expressed his gratitude to Governor Matawalle for his concern for the welfare of one of the important institutions which is the traditional institution as according to him, it still remains the bastion of hope that holds our society together. In a statement issued by the Special Adviser Media, Zailani Bappa said the Sultan called on the beneficiaries of the gesture to continue in their support to the administration of Governor Matawalle by rendering their best in ending the challenges facing the people. In his own remarks, Governor Matawalle said the gesture was done in recognition of the status of the traditional institutions as the custodians of our religion and culture and vehicle of cohesion and peace in our societies. “It is in view of the high esteem with which my administration regards our traditional leaders and institutions that we decided to procure brand new cars, Cadillac 2019 Model, for 17 Emirs, 13 Senior District Heads and 230 District Heads across the State,” the Governor revealed. Governor Matawalle assured that his administration will continue to work with traditional and religious leaders to ensure lasting peace and harmony in the state. “I would like to assure you that my administration will continue to work in line with the mission of uplifting the dignity and sanctity of our traditional institutions through all possible means. “We are currently rehabilitating and reconstructing some of the palaces of our emirs across the State. Some of these projects would soon be completed,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gov Matawalle distributes 260  Gov Matawalle distributes 260 Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gov Matawalle distributes 260  Gov Matawalle distributes 260