Some stakeholders in the education sector in Nigeria have identified poor parenting as a critical factor responsible for moral decadence as manifested in schools and other aspects of society. They spoke during a RayPower FM’s virtual discussion on the topic ‘Growing Moral Decadence in classrooms and the Blame Game,’ blaming parents, the stakeholders observed have relegated parenting to house helps and teachers. Registrar of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Professor Olusegun Ajiboye, who was a guest at the programme, lamented that parents have failed in providing their children with the support and guidance needed for their proper growth and development. While urging the parents to assume their responsibilities for raising morally-sound children, condemned the practice where some parents push their children to school and hope that the teacher would perform some miracle. Ajiboye reminded parents, “There is no school equal to a decent home, and no teacher equal to a factual parent,” stressing that no parent should bring a child into the world if they are not ready to take care of it. The TRCN boss who lamented that parents have become slaves to their children maintained his strong belief in the efficacy of corporal punishment in putting children straight.  “I am a believer of the fact that if you spare the rod, you spoil the child. Children should be disciplined. Corporal punishment is allowed in schools. The law recognizes it. “However, there are people to administer that; either the principal or the vice principal. We recognize that there can be excesses. That is the reason the law says that there are people that should do that. It is not for everybody. If we generally abandon the rod, what is happening now will be a child’s play to what will happen in the future,” he said. However, Professor Mopeola Omoegun, a Fellow of the Counselling Association of Nigeria, disagreed with Ajiboye on the issue of corporal punishment, adding that it has a negative impact on the children. While suggesting measures like denial and time out to help straighten a child, Omoegun spoke of the need for parents to begin early to teach the children sexuality education so as to enable them to know and report when they are being violated. She however added that children cannot approach their parents to discuss issues bothering them unless the parents create time for them and make them their best friends and confidants. Also speaking, a public affairs analyst, Francesca Ogulade, lamented that the value system in recent times has shifted from hard work and integrity to inordinate pursuit of money, adding it is high time parents returned to teaching their children values such as dignity and integrity and showing them the difference between right from wrong. The discussants while agreeing that parenting in the digital age is different and more difficult, urged parents to monitor what their children watch and limit their level of access to video and online content. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… Blame parents for moral decadence in Nigeria― Stakeholders We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Blame parents for moral decadence in Nigeria― Stakeholders