The Lagos State police command said it has commenced an investigation into the emergence of a sex tape involving students of Chrisland Schools when they went on a trip to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates recently. This is according to a statement signed by SP Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos Police Public Relations Officer It reads: “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to an alleged rape video purportedly depicting students of Chrisland School Lagos, going viral on social media. “The Command has commenced investigations into the matter with a view to establishing the identities of the players in the video, the true incident in the video, the geographical location of the incident, the alleged threat to life against a student of the school and circumstances surrounding the alleged repeated pregnancy tests conducted on a student without parental consent. “The Command is equally taking cognisance of the cybercrime angle to the whole episode and would not hesitate to enlist the support of the Interpol should the need arise. “For a holistic and unbiased investigation, the Command shall be working with relevant ministries, departments, agencies and non-governmental organisations.”  Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police has assured that due diligence will be observed to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. The Lagos State government has also closed down all Chrisland school branches in the state indefinitely over the sex tape. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)…G FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…