A media practitioner and business-oriented young man, Akanji Afolabi, has said his love for music was the genesis of being in the entertainment industry, which according to him, has changed his fortune. Afolabi, who hails from Ikirun, Osun State in the south-western part of Nigeria said he had over 20 years of experience in leading media companies but ventured into the entertainment industry quite not too long ago. He stated, “What brought me into entertainment is love for music. I enjoy listening to music. One of the musicians who inspired me is Seun Bankole popularly called SB, a talented artist who is ardent at blending various sorts of genres of music. The relationship between me and SB moved me being a fan and thereafter being a friend and ultimately, business slides in.” Narrating the story of how he started listening to MB music, Afolabi said, “I stole his CD from a friend’s car. One of my friends was playing SB’s CD in his car and I just liked it and asked my friend to give me the CD to which he refused. And when I stepped out of the car, I found a way to ‘steal’ the CD and have since become an entertainment addict. “I later discovered that SB played at a lounge five houses away from my place in Lagos and that was how our friendship cum business journey began.”  Before he ventured into entertainment, Afolabi disclosed that having started with Optima Sports Management International, he later joined the pioneer team of 3D Impact Media West Africa and thereafter moved to satellite TV where he worked with the giants in the industry, DSTV Media Sales an arm of Multichoice Africa with its tentacles spread across Africa. Afolabi, who later co-founded TMA Trending Media Africa (a media sales representative company) has gone ahead to revolutionize the cultures in the media realm by being the media representative of the popular Bollywood channel “Zee World” among other prominent channels. From there, he founded TREIDAK GROUP, which has an entertainment promoting arm whose focus is to bring talented crossover artistes in the industry to the limelight both home and abroad. It was during this period according to him that he met SB through the CD he stole from his friend, noting that since he met SB, he alongside a couple of emerging artists has since been the face of Treidak entertainment. Speaking on the change which he has brought into SB’s musical career, “Working with him has helped both platforms, especially him because he is the face out there. He has grown in leaps and bounds when it comes to popularity, exposure, and expansion. “SB has become a household name in the United States and has become better due to the exposure, the sky is too low to be the limit for SB’s musical career.” Speaking on the qualifies an artist to feature under Treidak Entertainment, he said such an artiste must be sure and able to prove himself beyond talent. Afolabi is not without hope for Treidak brand, “In the next five years, a great, great songs, I wasn’t expecting just any type of songs but songs which are inspirational and generational enough to withstand the test of time, I mean evergreen songs.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…How I’m focused. How I’m focused Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…How I’m focused  How I’m focused