Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has donated the sum of N23. 5m to families of the nine persons killed by terrorists during the recent Abuja-Kaduna train attack. While the sum of N5.5m will be shared among the 22 injured persons. Recall the attack which occurred on March 28, 2022, claimed the lives of nine persons, leaving dozens of others injured, while some of the passengers were abducted and are still under captivity. A statement issued by the Executive Secretary of the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (KADSEMA), Muhammed Mukaddas on Wednesday disclosed that the sum of N2 million has been earmarked to each family of the deceased person. He also revealed that the sum of N250,000 will be given to the 22 injured persons. According to the statement, “369 victims were called and offered opportunities for psychological support, 264 persons accepted the offers and were supported.  “We secured ambulances and busses for evacuation and moved to the scene before arrival, the military had commenced evacuation, we, therefore, evacuated the dead bodies and a few severely wounded victims and one person that had escaped captivity. “We deposited the dead at the 44 NARH and others at St. Gerald’s hospital for treatment. ‘We set up a crisis centre which availed families of the victims to call for enquiries and also provide relevant information about their missing relatives.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Kaduna train attack: El-Rufai donates N23.5m to families of deceased, injured persons Kaduna train attack: El-Rufai donates N23.5m to families of deceased, injured persons