A trader, Mrs Loveth Barrold, has told an Igando Customary Court to dissolve her marriage over allegations of threat to life and battering by her husband. Loveth said that her husband, Chukwuka, had neglected her for more than two years. “He totally changed and started returning late after he travelled to the village some years back,” she said. Loveth told the court that Chukwuka would sometimes not return home for weeks. “He came up with plans to travel home with our daughter and I told him it was not wise but he insisted and I obliged him. “A few days after, he called to tell me that there was unrest in the village and that policemen were arresting young men around. He told me to send him transport fare.  “I gathered all I had on me and sent it to him. He came back with our daughter, but that was the beginning of the crisis in our marriage, “she stated. According to Loveth, Chukwuka met a strange woman in the bus while returning. “They started a relationship. When I noticed that a particular number always called him, I became suspicious and was right. She was the one making my husband to act nonchalantly towards me, our daughter and the entire family. “I reported to his family members, who intervened, but my husband refused to change. Each time I mentioned the issue of this woman, he would beat me and throw my belongings out. “He had threatened to kill me on several occasions. He even attacked me spiritually; you can see the scar on my leg.  I was unable to walk for months. “On a particular occasion, a mad woman came to my shop to harass me, saying I should give her the dowry my husband paid on me. “I ran inside and called on my neighbours to come to my aid. “They offered the mad woman money, but she refused to take it from them. She insisted it must be from me. “I had to collect the money from my neighbours to give her, and she left.” The petitioner also said that her husband occasionally came to her shop to ask for a refund of the dowry he paid on her. “I promised to return the money he paid on me because he kept coming to harass me and demand for it.” Chukwuka has failed to take care of me and our daughter. Responding, Chukwuka, a technician, told the court that he never beat Loveth although they were always quarreling. He said each time he returned home late, his wife would start a quarrel. “It is true I left home for days but it was not because of a woman but work. “It is not true that I didn’t give her money for upkeep. I gave her money any time I was leaving home. I never failed in doing that. “I also did not send her packing. She was the one who left the house voluntarily,” he stated. Chukwuka told the court he still loved his wife. “My lord, I still love my wife, but I won’t force her if she insists on divorce. “I do not want the dowry, she can keep it because I still love her and our daughter. The court president, Mr Koledoye Adeniyi, adjourned the case.