Former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, has adopted 5,000 orphans as his children to commemorate this year’s Ramadan fasting in the state. Chairman for the distribution of foods and clothing to orphans committee in the state, Hon. Sanusi Liman DanAlhaji, on Thursday, said Yari has now become a father to orphans in the state. He maintained that Yari has spent a total of N169 million to feed and provide clothing materials to the orphans. According to him, assorted grains that comprise rice, maize, sugar and millet were distributed to orphans across all of the Emirates in the state. “I’m happy to tell you that former Governor Abdulaziz Yari Abubakar is now the father of orphans in the state. From this year’s Ramadan, he assured to adopt 5,000 Orphans, feed and cloth them every year across the state.” He further disclosed that “every benefitting orphan would get shader brocade for males while females would get wrapper with N2,000 for sewing.”  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.