Film producer and Ultimate Communications boss, Seun Oloketuyi has revealed that his latest film, a biopic on the life of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, titled ‘Last Man Standing’ will premiere on Sunday, April 24. According to Oloketuyi, film lovers, entertainment industry stakeholders, politicians and associates of the APC chieftain, Muslim and Christian faithful will gather for the Iftar meal with the presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Tinubu to watch the movie. “After much deliberations, we have decided to hold the official premiere on Sunday, April 24 here in Lagos. What we have had before was a private screening where Asiwaju’s close associates like former governor Bisi Akande, Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu and Governor Dapo Abiodun passed their comments on the film. Now, we are ready to unveil to the world what we have been able to do and we believe those who watch it with an open mind will find it both educating and entertaining, as any good film should be,” Oloketuyi said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Adding for the reason the premiere is holding during the fasting season, he said. “I don’t believe there is a set time for any good thing to be revealed. We have not done an immoral film, nor is it based on lies. Last Man Standing is a fact-based biopic that will become material for historic reference and since it is ready, it is a good time to premiere it.
“Also, it is a good time for those fasting to gather and break their fast together with the comfort of good company and quality entertainment.” He explained that while the original plan was to simply hold a premiere in the early days of April, the need to ensure that they got things right led to the private screening and that yielded good because the feedback was instrumental to the Iftar premiere. It would be remembered that the principal actor on the project, Adedimeji Lateef in the role of Tinubu had said that playing the role was scary because Asiwaju Tinubu would watch the film and eventually pass comment. “This is somebody that is alive. Someone that can sit and watch you play him, and if you don’t get it right he will say so eventually. It is a lot of work,” he had said. Directed by Tunde Olaoye, ‘Last Man Standing’ stars others like Gbenga Adeyinka, Jide Kosoko, Madam Kofo, Shushu Abubakar, Segun Arinze, Sam Olatunji and many others.