United Kingdom-based Nigerian singer, Emmanuel Anjorin, popularly known as Homebased, has recorded a huge success after he sold out his debut concert tagged ‘Homebased In Concert’ featuring his younger brother Nelsonjeez, last Friday at the popular Smade Lounge in London. The ‘Just Fine’ crooner was shown massive support as fans trooped out in numbers to attend the show from different cities such as Liverpool, Manchester and Sheffield. According to him, the feedback from the fans was very positive. They really enjoyed the concert and some were already asking for the next concert date. Homebased, did confirm that talks are already underway with regards to the next event.  He further added that there will be a collaboration with a number of very highly established artists on the next one and the date will be confirmed shortly. Meanwhile, different comments trailed the aftermath of the concert as some of his fans had this to say about the show. A female fan, who preferred to be anonymous said: “Hombased and Nelsonjeez are natural-born talents. Their stage presence and energy were so beautiful to experience.”  Some other fans echoed a bigger stage and clamoured thus: “we want to see Homebased at the O2 soon.” Another fan said: “I really love the ‘Just fine’ song by Homebased. I really enjoyed the show from top to bottom. The live band was incredible.” One of the Smade Lounge staff also commented and said “this guy is surely very special” Giving further remarks, Homebased said: “Honestly, I didn’t expect the show to sell out the way it did. As an independent artist and for someone who has only been in the music industry for just over 3 years. That was just epic! I didn’t even realise people knew a lot of my songs it was wonderful to hear them sing along with me. Especially the ‘Just fine’ track. It was incredible.” As the popular saying goes, nothing good comes easy, Homebased shared some of the challenges faced while putting the whole gig together. “The number one challenge faced is being an independent artist with no backing from anyone. I basically project managed the event myself end-to-end. This includes funding, promotions, and logistics to overall execution. So I am indeed super proud of how things turned out,” he said. The show had in attendance a number of guest artists present. Nigerian Music artists Tunaco, Veratunes, Sean Dampte, and UK-based artists, Neonate , Bellybandit and Anthony Joshua’s brother Mauro, all performed before the main event, to thrill the guests. 