The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Ahmed Idris Wase, on Tuesday, condemned the incessant attacks on some communities in Kanam and Bassa Local Government Areas of Plateau State. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, the Deputy Speaker charged the security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators are arrested and brought to book. Hon Wase expressed grief over the casualties suffered in the attacks and prayed to God to give the families of the victims the fortitude to bear the painful loss. He said: “It is with heavy heart that I join other well-meaning Nigerians in condemning this dastardly act coming just at a time when farmers are preparing their farmlands for the forthcoming farming season. “The security operatives must not rest on their oars in fishing out the perpetrators. “I call on security agencies in the state to spare nothing in ensuring that justice prevails for the victims and the people of Plateau State.” Hon. Wase also asked the security agencies to put measures in place to ensure that such avoidable deaths and attacks are brought to an end while extending his sincere condolences to the people and government of Plateau State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Wase tasks security agencies to arrest, prosecute killers of innocent citizens in Plateau Wase tasks security agencies to arrest, prosecute killers of innocent citizens in Plateau