The Olu of Warri, His Royal Majesty, Ogiame Atuwatse III, has firmly refuted the statement claiming the endorsement of APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as a presidential candidate for 2023 elections. The Olu of Warri denied the endorsement and having any preferred political candidate for any office in the forthcoming elections be it at the regional or national level in a statement signed by Mr Oriiz Onuwaje Head, Back Office Operations. The statement dated April 15, and made available to our correspondent stated that the revered king is a father figure to all and has no special interest in any of the candidates and therefore will not endorse or discredit anyone to the detriment or advantage of others. “On the instructions of His Majesty Ogiame Atuwatse III – The Olú of Warri; firmly rebut the statement claiming Ogiamé’s endorsement of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and restates that Ogiame has no political affiliation or preferred political candidate for any office in the forthcoming 2023 elections be it at the regional, sub-national or national level.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Ogiame is a father figure to all and has no personal favourite or special interests in any candidate or political party vying for any office in the forthcoming elections one way or another and will therefore not endorse or discredit any candidate to the detriment or advantage of others. “The headlines credited to Ogiame in the referenced quotes have been taken out of context and reworked to suit a specific narrative. “They cannot be further from the truth. For an unclear motive, the writer contravenes the Palace’s avowed role of non-partisanship. “Ogiame is a father figure to all who have a genuine interest in advancing the course of development of our nation. “Ogiame is duty-bound to receive and proffer advice and blessings to all those who seek his audience and counsel. “Therefore, His Majesty Ogiame Atúwátse IIll – The Olu of Warri is using this medium to make this important clarification for the avoidance of doubt and further requesting that in the future, any queries and clarifications on Palace communications should be directed to the Palace media,” it stated. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Olu Of Warri refutes Tinubu’s endorsement for president