Vice president Yemi Osinbajo; music icon, King Sunny Adegeye; renowned cleric, Pastor Tunde Bakare; veteran musician, Pastor Joseph Adelakun (Baba Ayewa); Senator Solomon Adeola; former Senator David Salako; wife of the former president, Chief (Mrs) Bola Obasanjo and host of other dignitaries converged on the Decross Gospel Mission, church headquarters, Agege, Lagos to celebrate legendary musician, Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi on his 80th birthday thanksgiving celebration. The event, which was graced by high profile dignitaries, fellow musicians, including, veteran musicians, Pastor Idowu Animashaun and Sir Shina Peters, among others, turned into a day of honour for the living music legend. In his tribute, Osinbajo expressed his delight to celebrate with Obey whom he noted to be one of his esteemed fans, saying “I am delighted to join your family, fans, and friends across the globe in celebrating God’s goodness and mercy as you reach this grand age in good health and with the benefit of having your loved ones around you.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He added, “For most of us, the fond memory of our formative years and family celebrations is engrained with the all familiar tunes of your evergreen music, and beyond the sweet melodies, lay the timeless wisdom of its messages. I believe it is only stating the obvious to call you a legend.” Osinbajo also acknowledged the great influence of the music legend in the African entertainment and Yoruba culture spheres, just as he appreciated how the Almighty God has also made the celebrant a vessel of grace in His kingdom towards the saving souls and the propagation of the gospel. He also prayed that God grant the music legend strength, wisdom, and divine favour. In his testimony of the great influence on his life, Pastor Bakare noted that Obey’s musical works made life easy for him when he came to Lagos as his musical work inspired him to be hardworking and committed to becoming successful through hard work. “I am proud to be your disciple because you are special. I have all your records. Your music is spiritual, prayerful, philosophical, and timeless. I pray God will continue to strengthen you and grant you sound health,” he added. Baba Ayewa, who led other musicians to celebrate Obey at the event, described Obey as a special living music legend and an exceptional role model. He also recalled that Obey helped his music career greatly and bought him a set of musical instruments without his request. In his response, the celebrant appreciated God for the divine grace to have attained 80 in sound mind. He also acknowledged President Muhammadu Buhari for identifying his great contribution to nation-building and making him a role model for the Nigerian youth. “I appreciate my parents, especially my mother for their role in my life. I want to specially thank the vice-president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo for deeming it fit to celebrate in person. I also thank everyone that has come from far and near to celebrate with me today. I appreciate my family, children, and the leadership and members of the Decross Gospel Mission. You are also wonderful. Finally, I thank my late wife, she was a pillar of support, but the Lord took her a few years ago,” he added. “Permit me to also appreciate some important personalities that have been a great pillar in my life. I want to specially thank the late Moshood Kasimawo Abiola; the late Aare Musulimi, Alhaji Arisekola Alao, and my great friend and brother who do not like publicity; you all mean a lot to my life,” he added. Obey also seized the event to admonish youths to shun any form of shortcut to success, just as he noted that through hard work and God’s grace they can only achieve a better tomorrow.