TERRORISTS on Sunday afternoon killed 17 soldiers, while 23 others were injured during an attack on a military base at Polewire in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Three vigilante members were also killed during the attack. A source disclosed that the terrorists, suspected to be members of Ansaru, engaged the soldiers at the base for several hours before overpowering them. According to the source, the terrorists attacked the military base with AK-47 rifles and other high-powered machine guns. He said: “They eventually overpowered our soldiers and killed 17, while 23 others were injured during the encounter.” The source added that the dead and wounded were taken to the 44 Army Reference Hospital in Kaduna. “Out of the 40 soldiers, 17 were confirmed dead. That is to say, 23 soldiers were wounded and they are currently receiving treatment in the hospital.” It was gathered that the families of the wounded soldiers had been contacted and most of them were already at the hospital, while the corpses of the deceased had been deposited at the mortuary awaiting further directives. “They will receive a befitting military burial with honours in line with military tradition. They died in the course of duty defending their fatherland,” the source said. Meanwhile, the chairman of Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressives Union, Ishaq Usman Kasai, has confirmed that three civilians were among those killed during the attack. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Speaking in an interview with the Nigerian Tribune, he said the three civilians were members of a vigilante group. Kasai added that it was believed the terrorists had moved from Niger State to attack the soldiers at their base. He said the terrorists, suspected to be members of the Ansaru group, were believed to be coming from Niger State when they attacked the military base. “While the attack lasted, residents sought refuge elsewhere. Most of us slept outside Birnin Gwari town that day.” He, however, said normalcy had returned to the area. As of the time of filing this report, there was no confirmation from the police, Army or the state government on the attack.