Towards the actualisation of its political participation in the 2023 general election, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) last weekend inaugurated its National Political Commission under the chairmanship of Dr Ayo Olorunfemi. Having inaugurated the commission across the zones of the federation, states and local government areas, the Dr Ayo Olorunfemi national leadership of the political engine house of the Congress, would oversee the participation of TUC teeming members in the 2023 general election. Charging the Commission during the inauguration, TUC President, Comrade Olaleye Quadri, noted that the Congress since its Political Roundtable event in Abuja, have commenced implementation of the decisions reached at the roundtable. “We are more prepared. Our interest in political participation will not go the old ways” he added. He went on to say that the Political Commission has been working underground for weeks towards ensuring a successful participation and desired outcome for the union in the 2023 election. He also hinted that the Commission will, in a few days, announce to Nigerians TUC’s action plans towards the 2023 election contest in line with INEC stipulations.  Comrade Quadri further said that the TUC zonal, state and LG inaugurated political commission have already started sensitisation and education of their members and the general public on the direction the Congress is certain would deliver Nigeria from backwardness to progress. He also noted that TUC is inaugurating both their extended political commission of nine members and as well political commission implementation committee, which comprises members of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria and Civil Society Organisations. “From the National Administrative Council of the Congress and all members of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria, this is to inform the general public that today we have appointed the following to handle the political commission activities of Trade Union Congress and they are authorised to air statements and take decisions on behalf of the TUC in relation to politics. Comrade Dr Ayo Olorunfemi has been appointed as the Chairman of the political commission of Trade Union Congress of Nigeria,” Quadri said. Dr Olorunfemi was also appointed the chairman of TUC’s Political Education Action Plan National Implementation Committee. Comrade Quadri said, “The committee is mandated to ensure that TUC plays a key role in the 2023 general election especially at this period that everybody in government wants to contest for the position of President of Nigeria.” He stressed the need for members of TUC and Nigerians at large to be very watchful and engage in the 2023 election processes as politicians have shown that there is more than meets the eyes in the position of presidency. Quadri wondered why the ruling All Progress Congress would want someone to pay N100 million for a form to contest for president. He further asked how the party expects whoever wins the APC ticket to govern Nigeria for the interest of the citizens when it is obvious that anyone who ventured into business and spent a huge sum of N100 million would not want to make gains in million folds. He went on to call on all members of the organised labour to be at alert and invest in ensuring that those who have decided to make Nigerian commonwealth a business where they would make gains at the detriment of Nigerian masses are not voted into power in the 2023 election.