Oyesanya Adewunmi, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of MZ Jewel Skin Care, with a knack for entrepreneurship. In this interview by FUNMILAYO AREMU, she speaks on her career and how young Nigerians can be successful through entrepreneurship.  How has life been as a young entrepreneur? It has not been easy, but I can say it is absolutely worth it. The life of an entrepreneur is a roller coaster. At some point, you may be riding the high of a new and successful product launched and in the next minutes different challenges pop up at you forcing you to joggle the responsibility of putting them all out before they sink the business. As a young entrepreneur, each day comes with a mix of inspiration and challenges. There are days I feel like quitting and days that I keep defeating with heads up. Living the life of an entrepreneur is tough. Being an entrepreneur can be challenging, but despite the dreariness and despair that can often times descend upon you as you seek to navigate the incredible challenges, there is also a great purpose behind the business. In all, I can say it’s absolutely worth it.  What are the challenges you face as entrepreneur?  Inflation has been one of the major challenges, as the present unstable economy is affecting the business; the daily increase in prices of commodity and majorly raw materials used for the product are not making things favorable. Also, inadequate funding and lack of capital is another major concern. The lack of funds has left the business crawling. The impact of funds cannot be under emphasised.  You recently won a grant from the Jewel Empowerment Foundation (JEF) to boost your business. How has this impacted  your career? The grant is a helpful drive and it has promoted my business and helped with easy purchase of more equipment and raw materials. I look forward to receiving more grants from more organisations.  Can you share some of your experiences as an entrepreneur? Sometimes, things don’t work out the way it is expected, but I love it anyway. I love the failure, I love the successes and I love the stress. There are a lot of experiences, but one vivid experience is the making of products for customers to suit their specifications such as skin type, skin colour, skin texture, etc.  Making products that can exactly solve customer’s skin predicament is one of my greatest experience in this my line of business. It gives me joy when I get positive and outstanding feedbacks from products made with my hands from the scratch.  What made you go into this line of business? I never thought I would be making organic skin care products, but here I am. Amidst the global pandemic, a lot of businesses were affected and I looked around me and discovered that despite the lockdown, I was still having my daily bath. I was using soap and cream and eating daily. So, I said to myself that starting a skincare business will not be a bad idea because I observed that despite the fact that I could not go out amidst the pandemic, I still use cream and soap daily and that was how I decided to launch out. Prior to that time, I loved things related to skin and I have fore-knowledge of skincare. So I contacted my boss and learnt my advanced and master class on the making skincare products. We had an online class during the pandemic for some weeks, afterwards I started my business.  What motivates you as an individual? I love to try out new things and see what it could be. That is what drives me. Taking the jump! It is the scariest and hardest thing I do as an individual but it is also the most fulfilling. I love to see people use my discoveries and it makes me happy and fulfilled. I also love to learn new things and explore the new things.  How do you think the government can improve the business of entrepreneurs? Capital is the sole of a business. Capital can be given as  grant for startup by the government because a lot of businesses have failed as a result of lack of investment. Conclusively, the government should also make quick accessibility in getting loans with low interest rates. Trying to get a loan can be quite difficult and high interest rates discourage businesses. Though some organisations like Jewel Empowerment Foundation have come to the aids of some promising entrepreneurs, it is a welcome development and it is encouraging. I hope the government can take a cue from this to make it spread across board.  What advice do you have for ladies out there that are struggling to be financially independent? Take the step. Face your fears! Being a lady does not make you inferior in the business world. Gather yourself! Brace up! Talk to as many people as you can, seek counsel, trust God and launch out.  How do you intend to project your brand? Increase visibility and online presence, connect with target audience, inform more family and friends, and promote more through my social media pages. Above all, I put all in God’s hands for success in all ramifications.  What is your advice to fellow young Nigerian entrepreneurs? Being an entrepreneur is the best way to make sure you live a life of passion and adventure. The best time to start a business is now. Take the risk! There are opportunities you have in life, to impact, and an opportunity to be creative.  What was your growing up like? I grew up in a happy, godly and normal family. I grew up in a family with four siblings. I am the first child and growing up with my parents and siblings was fun and full of challenges, but in all I came out stronger. Growing up was awesome. My family is a beautiful one, God-fearing and God-Centered. I am grateful to God for raising me in my family. Growing up gives me a better understanding of myself and finding out what and who I am and what makes me happy.  Your educational background. I had my primary school education at Cornerstone Kiddies College, Sagamu, Ogun State. I had my secondary school education at Integrity Comprehensive College, Sagamu, Ogun State. I had my first degree at Federal University of Agriculture where I studied Biochemistry. I had my second degree at Federal University of Technology, Akure where I studied Biochemistry too, while other degrees in view.