Miffed by the slow pace of work and non-performance by the contractor, the Delta State governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, on Friday, hinted that the state government may terminate the contract for the electricity supply project in Mosogar, Ethiope West Local Government Area. Okowa gave the hint at the final passage rites of the Ovie of Mosogar, Samson Okirhiobo Imoyin-Omene, Udurhie I, at the Palace Gound in Mosogar. He expressed dissatisfaction with the performance of the contract, saying that he was disturbed to hear that the project had continued to suffer unnecessary delays on account of the ineptitude of the contractor. He said that the state government would take steps to terminate and re-award the electricity project to a more competent contractor. The governor assured the community people of the government’s support for the rehabilitation of its internal roads. “Let me say that I am disappointed to hear that the project has continued to suffer delays after my approval.  “If after one year plus and the project is still not delivered then it truly deserves to be terminated. “Let me assure you that we will deal with the issue,” he said. Okowa paid glowing tribute to the late monarch, describing him as a humble leader who cared for the growth and development of his Kingdom. ‘The late Udurhie I was truly a very humble man who was so much concerned about the development of his kingdom. “Truly, his humility was such that it attracted everyone who came close to him and that’s what is expected of us, especially when we find ourselves in positions of power. “On behalf of my family, the government and the people of Delta, we condole with the family and the entire kingdom on the passing of their beloved father and king. “From what I have seen here today, the people of Mosogar truly loved their king and it is our prayer that his soul will continue to rest in peace,” Okowa stated. In his welcome address, the traditional prime minister and Otota of Mosogar Kingdom, Chief Ighoyota Amori said the funeral symbolises the end and beginning of a new era in the kingdom as preparation for the future for the enthronement of a new king. He said the kingdom was founded in 2006 with Udurhie I, the first-ever king presented with the staff of office in 2007. He urged the state government to terminate and re-award the contract for the 2.5MVA Transformer to energize the Mosogar electricity network. The funeral was attended by former governors of the state, Chief James Ibori, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, and members of the National and State House of Assembly, among other dignitaries. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Okowa expresses disappointment  Okowa expresses disappointment Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Okowa expresses disappointment  Okowa expresses disappointment