SPIRITUAL Head, Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church Worldwide (Ayo ni o), Prophet Samuel Abidoye, has prescribed prayers as the way out of the current challenges bedeviling Nigeria. He, therefore, urged both Christians and Muslims to embark on fervent prayers for the country. “The current challenges in the country can neither be cured by guns nor cutlasses but by prayers. I am, therefore, asking both Christians and Muslims alike to pray to God to intervene in the affairs of the country,” he said. The C&S head, who spoke with journalists on the sideline of this year’s Easter picnic at Orile-Igbon, headquarters of the church, on Ilorin-Ogbomoso expressway, added that: “We need God’s help and presence in Nigeria. We cannot surmount the current challenges on our own. Many have been killed and several others maimed due to insecurity. We need Jesus to come down and help us and that is part of the reason we have organised the yearly Easter picnic for God to look down from heaven and help us do what we humans cannot do.” On the 2023 elections, the spiritual father stressed the need for peace and urged Nigerians to vote for credible leaders that would move the nation forward in all ramifications. “As we go into 2023, let it be a peaceful journey. Let us land safely in this election year. I want to appeal to all members of this church and Christians generally to get their permanent voter cards. With this, you will be able to vote for a candidate of your choice and participate well in the process of choosing your leader.” he added.  In his homily, Special Apostle Prophet Zacchaeus Abidoye Emmanuel, urged the Christian faithful to exhibit and show love to one another, saying this is what Jesus Christ lived and died for, urging all to repent from their evil and sinful ways so that the death and crucifixion of Jesus Christ would not be in vain for us. “Easter is a period of sober reflection for all Christians and to live a holy life devoid of sin. Let us show love to one another and preach Christ to others because this is the great commission given to all Christians.”