The Nigerian education sector has been calling for attention and it is high time all stakeholders did the needful. From primary to secondary through to our tertiary institutions, the daunting challenges confronting these schools must be addressed. It is however painful to note that the relevant authorities saddled with the responsibilities of arresting the disturbing trend have not been living up to expectation. Again, it is painful to note that graduates from our tertiary institutions are not employable. In many instances, their course work and disciplines have no direct relevance to today’s world. Scholarship should be geared towards solving human problems, anything aside that should be jettisoned. Today, in Nigeria, as in many other parts of the world, there are many existential problems confronting humanity. Also added are other socio-economic challenges resulting in a world not at peace with itself. It simply follows that education not directly providing solutions to these various human agitations should be pushed aside. Our education sector must be improved upon and the necessary investments brought in.  Favour Johnson, Enugu ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector