The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Creative Director of Afrik Universe, Amos-Miracle Uka, has said that for Nigerians to change their negative narratives they need mindset, cultural and belief re-orientations. Uka said this in Minna, the Niger State capital, on Saturday, during an event called Changing the Narrative Conference (CNC) 2022, with the theme ‘A beautiful story’. He stated that the conference, which was organised by Afrik Universe, was a response to the growing need of the African mind seeking a change, a change in paradigm and status. “A Man is a reflection of his mind,” Uka said. “By extension, a society is a reflection of the mindset of her people, and the mindset of a people are products of culturing variables.”  He said these culturing variables like cultural beliefs, ideologies, stereotypes, and paradigms, “without our consents, brand us, and by extension, dictate to us how to view the world.” He warned that nothing good comes from this branding and that the limitations are enough barriers to keep its victims from achieving their goals and breaking through. “The few who became a marvel consciously strived to achieve this through the power of re-branding,  re-writing and re-culturing of the mind,” he said. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Other speakers and panellists at the event were Nollywood producer and director, Obi Emelonye; Bisi Jeremiah, David Roberts, Egwu Nnanna, Dare Akintunde, and Iremia Godspower. Egwu Nnanna noted that the conference was not just organised to inspire and motivate the participants to take action, but that it was also designed to empower them with the right information and knowledge to take on every challenge they will encounter in life’s journey, even when every other form of motivation has melted. Some participants at the event expressed optimism that the conference and its organisers have inspired a change in status quo, repositioned minds, challenged stereotypes, false narratives, and cultural beliefs that enforce limitations, barriers and failures among Africans by introducing a new culture of thoughts and beliefs.