THE Evangelical Church of Winning All (ECWA) has blasted the Federal Government over its failure to tame insecurity in the country saying the government has failed to carry out its constitutional responsibility of securing the lives and properties of the citizens despite the huge amount being spent on security. It also expressed worry on the conspicuous silence by the Federal Government under the leadership of President Mohammadu Buhari and its reluctance to descend heavily on the perpetrators of the heinous crimes. According to the communique issued at the end of the 69th General Church Council meeting of the church, presented by its President, Reverend Stephen Baba Panyam, the church condemned in strong terms the recent attack on an Abuja-Kaduna bound train, the killings and abduction of many of the passengers by the terrorists. It equally frowned on the invasion of Kaduna International Airport, and the constant killings and abductions of citizens in Kaduna, Kebbi, Zamfara, Plateau, Niger and other states across the country. The Church Council further decried the failure of the government to carry out its constitutional responsibility of securing lives and properties of the citizens despite the huge amount being spent on security. It called on all tiers of government to do all it must to secure the release of all abducted victims and bring to a halt the activities of terrorists in the country. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Church Council equally condemned the continuous activities of terrorist groups including Fulani jihadist militia, Boko- Haram, ISWAP and bandits terrorising the North, Middle Belt and other parts of the country. On the persistent strike by ASUU, ASUP and other Labour Union, it observed that the nation has for many years bogged down by myriad problems, including constant strike actions embarked upon by many labour unions. It, therefore, appealed to the government and the striking union to put the interest of the nation first and resolve the industrial crisis as soon as possible adding that this would stop the idle students from being easily recruited by terrorists, kidnappers, bandits, cultists and criminals. The Church called on all its members and indeed all Christians to shun political apathy and to actively join political parties of their choice to help sanitise the polity.