The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun has assured activists that Yorubas’ agitation for self-determination is achievable, in spite of various challenges militating against the realization of the set goal. Oba Balogun, therefore, charged the various groups at the forefront of the struggle to press forward until the utmost goal is achieved. Oba Balogun gave the charge while receiving an audience at his Alarere residence, Ibadan one of the foremost groups led by Prince Tokunbo Ajasin on Wednesday. The monarch who acknowledged the various challenges confronting the people generally ranging from economic meltdown, violence, and youths unemployment among others charged them not to be weary or tired of the struggle.  Oba Balogun noted that afore challenges could weigh down the activists but assured them that ends would justify the means. However, the monarch, who himself was a frontline activist in his heydays maintained that tough times never last, only tough people do. There is nothing too much to be done to ensure that one’s goal is achieved and I promise you my support for the attainment of your cherished goal. Speaking on behalf of the groupo, Comrade Gbenga Awosode pleaded with Olubadan to use his rich experience to forge unity among his colleague Obas in Yorubaland. He noted that Oba Balogun stands out as one of the most learned Obas in Yorubaland with academic, political and business exposure. He, thereby, wished Kabiyesi to deploy his vast experience in all those areas to the collective well-being of the entire Yoruba race. “Kabiyesi, we want the unity of purpose among Yoruba Obas and we want your Imerial Majesty to do your bit in that regard.” This is time for our revered fathers to speak with one voice on issues that touch our common interest with your esteemed pedigree. This is achievable. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Yoruba agitation for self-determination  Yoruba agitation for self-determination Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Yoruba agitation for self-determination  Yoruba agitation for self-determination