A popular Nigerian film actor, Abdullateef Adedimeji, has bankrolled tuition fees of over 400 aspiring university students in partnership with an educational consult to prepare them for the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) test. Speaking with the Nigerian Tribune, Adedimeji, who is also the founder of Great Minds Initiative (GMI), said that the initiative was intended to ease the socio- economic circumstances of parents who are striving to provide the best for their children. “It is important to give students access to quality education and hence increase their chances of gaining admission into the university. This is one of our goals at Great Minds Initiative (GMI). We believe that un- restricted access to quality education guarantees the future of every child”, he said. The Nollywood actor, who expressed optimism that participants at the training programme held in Lagos state would pass the JAMB exams in flying colours, said that, “rather than looking for a shortcut, a responsible student will make the most of this opportunity. “This is the reason I partnered with Lan-
kotheory Education Services Limited as the designated institute for the programme. Therefore, I am expecting students to work hard and target merit as it is the most ef- fective way to spearhead change in the so- ciety while closing the gap in moral laxity”. Adedimeji, who said that his joy would be to see the students gain admission and graduate with good grades, added that, “despite adversity and challenges, we as individuals, organisations and as a country, can unite together in changing the society with the right commitment”.  On his future plan and programmes for the beneficiaries, the sponsor said that he hoped to increase the number of beneficia- ries in subsequent programmes. “Training or preparing over 400 students from this community to excel in the JAMB examination is somewhat less than the en- tire number of students we aim to train, but we expect to be able to accommodate more next year”, he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…