The entire Vom community in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State was thrown into mourning on Thursday when a 23-year-old mother of two identified as Mercy Samuel was allegedly killed by her husband, Samuel Mathew in Jos. Tribune Online learnt that the woman was killed in a mysterious and barbaric way by her husband who ripped open her abdomen with a Knife during a disagreement and bolted away immediately after the dastardly act. It was learnt that the incident happened on Monday and neighbours who dashed to the scene of the horrific act rushed the woman to the Bingham Teaching Hospital where she eventually died after efforts to save her life on Wednesday The State Project Officer, Women’s Right Advancement and Protection Alternative, WRAPA, Jummai Madaki who got wind of the incident and had been making spirited efforts to save her life pointed out that there had been cases of violence against the woman before the incident. “There had been some violence against her in the past as confirmed by her family but the husband’s family denied any violence. The man ripped open her tummy, remove her intestine and cut it before he disappeared with her phone so she could not call for help. “They live in a small apartment so I wonder why no one heard her scream, we were told help did not come until the early hours of Monday when she was rushed to the hospital where she was placed on oxygen.  “An informant called my attention to the incident and we raise an alarm. Surprisingly, the matter was not reported to the Police. We were told by her parents that even as recent as last year, she was home due to some issues but the husband’s people came to beg and she went back.” Madaki said. The Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Rebecca Sambo who also visited the deceased family house in Gyel, Jos South, expressed sadness over the incident and assured the family that the matter would not be swept under the carpet, stating, “The Police has been informed and action has commenced ensuring the young girl gets justice.” She advised women to speak out once they sense any danger in their marriages and not give themselves over to be killed by violent husbands and directed women to approach the Gender Desks in Police Stations and report gender-based violence to the Desk Officers. Meanwhile, efforts to get the State Police Public Relations Officer ASP Gabriel Ubah proved abortive as he did not pick up calls put across to him. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ Man allegedly kills 23-year-old wife in Plateau With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Man allegedly kills 23-year-old wife in Plateau