AS presidential aspirants stepped up consultations ahead of party primaries, Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, on Tuesday, declared that he only owes allegiance to the oath of office he took to mount the saddle of office. Speaking in his home state, Ogun in his ongoing nationwide consultations on his presidential bid for the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), he said it was oath to the people, Nigerian children and the future of the country. “After all I have learnt, if called upon to serve the nation, should I say no? I have decided that I will run for the office. I have sworn an oath to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is an oath to our people, our children and the future of Nigeria. I owe nobody else any allegiance outside the oath”, he added. Osinbajo during the visit, was at the palaces of the Akarigbo and Paramount Ruler of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi; the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo and the Olu and Paramount Ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, were he held stakeholders meetings. He later met with Governor Dapo Abiodun at the Presidential Lodge, Ibara, Abeokuta, as reporters were barred from gaining entry into the venue of the meeting. Osinbajo was reported to have said that he was not in the state to campaign, but to inform his people of his intention to run for the office of the president, having consulted widely across all sections of the society.  The VP said he equally consulted with Buhari before he threw his hat into the ring to succeed him. Osinbajo while recounting his contributions to the present federal government, said he was actively involved in the judiciary reforms and its repositioning to work optimally, and ensure that judges are adequately enumerated. He said his working with President Buhari had exposed him to governance at the highest level and placed him in a position to tackle serious issues concerning economy, security, among others. “The Vice President position is an opportunity to serve and I have served with utmost loyalty. I put everything into my work. I am a candidate who will hit the ground running when I am elected. “I have the requisite knowledge to do the job and building on what others has put in place. My presidency will bring peace, unity and development to the country”, the VP said. Osinbajo, however, commended Abiodun-led administration for the giant strides it has recorded in the last three years, expressing the hope that his quest to lead the country would be fruitful. Oba Ajayi, in his remarks, posited that the vice president was competent with the required qualification to lead the nation, observing that his performance as the acting president is there for all to see. Meanwhile, Governor Abiodun, has assured the vice president that the state would support his presidential ambition. Osinbajo was on a-day consultation to his home state, on his plan to succeed his boss, President Muhammadu Buhari, in office after the completion of their two-term of right years in office. The governor said the VP’s presidential bid would enable him continue with some of the laudable projects of his boss. The governor in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, noted that Osinbajo in the last seven years had contributed to the many successes recorded by the federal government. He was quoted to have said that is “eminently qualified to lead the country. “The Vice President present here is home coming. We are pleased with his decision to run for the office of the president. He is competent and committed to lead the country in a higher capacity. “Your steadfastness, integrity and character are all well known. You are serving this country and the president meritoriously for the last seven years as the vice president. We have no doubt that you will do well as the president and we will support you”, Abiodun stated. The governor was said to have extolled the VP’s academic exploits while recalling how he stood behind his gubernatorial election and described him as a man who is interested in fairness, justice, equity and the Rule of Law.