It was all cheers at the Blue Moon hotel Lekki when Mr Ideal Enugu, Ronald Shakur emerged the 13th Mr Ideal Nigeria amid cheers from his fans and those who have followed his modelling career for a long time. Ronald is an IT consultant based in Làgos. When asked why IT consultants are perceived as boring, Ronald replied “people often tend to see us in our most serious moments, I, for example, play rugby and I’m also into 3D fashion design and a boring person cannot do all these.” The judges for the event include Actor Stan Nze, PR consultant  Pexxy, BBN stars Boma and Yerins and producer Victor Okpala. He won the chance to represent Nigeria at the Mister Africa International. In addition, an official car, PR by Motomedia, a year supply of Nutzy peanut butter, year supply of John Paul fragrance, ambassadorial deal with Lena organics, scholarship to Royal Art Academy, free international travel courtesy of Markman and Tours, outfits from different designers including SAj luxury, Blokes n divas, Majified, Itouche, reverse by Dede. The runner ups include Mr Ideal Nigeria – Earth, Zander; Mr Ideal Nigeria – Tourism, Zeal; Mr Ideal Nigeria – 1st prince, Eugene Mr Ideal Nigeria – 2nd prince, Eddie; Mr Anambra won the business icon and was awarded N100,000. Other winners of the night are Mr Physique – Mr Ideal Abuja, Henry; Top model – Mr Ideal Bayelsa, Stephen; Mr Friendly, Mr Ideal Kebbi, Fash ; Mr Beach Body, Mr Ideal Kaduna, Maliq.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. 