Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State has set up a committee to unravel the true cause of armed struggle in the SouthEast region, which has led to insecurity. The committee is to be headed by Prof Chidi Odinkalu, with Amb. Bianca Ojukwu as secretary and termed ― Truth, Justice and Peace Committee. Secretary to the Anambra State Government, Prof. Solo Osita Chukwulobelu who signed a press statement he made available to Journalists in Awka, on Wednesday, disclosing this reeled out terms of reference to the committee. The statement reads, “The purpose of the Committee on Truth, Justice, and Peace is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence. “Accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the state, and the region/Nigeria. “Terms of Reference for the Committee are; to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South East since 1999. “Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration, identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands. “Addressing any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future and make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra State/Southeast.” Chukwulobelu said the committee shall have a direct reporting line to the Governor, and will be provided with administrative support to perform its duties, and shall conclude its work no later than six months from its inauguration. Meanwhile, other members of the committee include: Dr Joe Nwaorgu, Dr Udenta Udenta, Dr Uju Agomoh, Rev. Fr (Msgnr) Jerome Madueke and Canon Dr Okechukwu C. Obi-Okoye. Others are: Charles Oputa (Charly Boy), Dr. John Otu, Mr. Ngozi Odumuko, Ms Onyeka Onwenu, Dr. Joe Abah, Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezukwu, Mr. Sam Evwuatu and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Soludo appoints Odinkalu  Soludo appoints Odinkalu Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Soludo appoints Odinkalu  Soludo appoints Odinkalu