Ghanaian advocate for good governance and democratic ideals, Ernesto Yeboah has berated what he termed the absence of a coherent vision by Africa’s elite for the development of the continent. Yeboah is popularly known as the Commander-In-Chief of Ghana’s Economic Fighters League. The Economic Fighters League is a radical Nkrumahist movement in Ghana working for economic democracy of Ghana and the larger African continent.  The activist revealed this during his interactions with panelists of the Toyin Falola Interview Series. The series has Toyin Falola, a globally celebrated African historian, alongside a selected panel of interviewers, interrogate scholars, opinion moulders, policymakers, politicians, industrialists and experts whose works have direct representations on the African condition. Fielding questions from Professor Falola, Dr. Charles Prempeh, Afia Pokua, Chief Nana Ansah, and many others, Yeboah cautioned that: “In the absence of a coherent vision, we would just be running around like a headless chicken. What kind of Africa do we want? What kind of Africans do we want to see? Nkrumah was talking about the African personality, and embodied in that African personality were certain things that he wanted to see in that future African: humble but confident person who is materially substantial to the society with the necessary intellectual capacity to cause change in society. There was a vision: the vision of one united Africa, the vision of fighting neocolonialism. The whole body of people was brought to that reality of what is chasing us and what we are chasing. Today if I ask you what is Ghana chasing, what is Africa chasing, what your response will be might be different from Professor Falola’s or any other person. The point I am making is that we are scattered. “We don’t have a current vision holding us together. The ones that exist don’t belong to us. They do not emanate from us. Once you have this kind of situation, every other thing that you are putting in place will not make. There is no development on the agenda of any African state. I will take the case of Ghana as an example. There is only agenda which is tailored to protect a particular political regime. When I look across Africa, I don’t see any difference with the Kenyan, Nigerian constitutions. All these constitutions are basically built to bottle up power for a few people. That is why their response to actions (like demonstrations by workers, students) is violence. In their mind, those kinds of activities can lead to a regime change. They therefore must prevent it from happening. To that extent, I will say that there is no development focus as we speak.  Currently what we have does not enforce development.” Drawing from his pool of research, Professor Falola informed a bewildered audience when he said that “We calculated how much it would cost for people like Ernesto to form a minority party in Nigeria. It is 250 billion naira. In Ghana the amount may be less but in a situation that it is heavily monetized, do you think it is possible for people like Ernesto to have a space?” ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Responding to Falola’s question, Chief Ansa, another panelist, remarked: “In the absence of money, I think if they have numbers, they could agitate the change. If you have millions of youths, all singing the same thing, you can have the voter blackmail. They can say listen, if this is not going to be your change, we are not voting. But if Ernesto is going to the left and other groups are going to the right, it will be difficult. There was a time all the groups came together but on the day of demonstration, all the groups came with their different placards. The leaders among them got agitated and rivalry set in, and the agitation broke down.” Yeboah however contended that given the huge disconnect that exists between the political parties and the Ghanaian people, it would be difficult for his movement to be in bed with politicians until what is right for the people are done. According to him, “We have committed all our structures throughout the country to campaign for fixing the country. Our members were threatened; some were beaten, others lost their lives. As a leader who has committed people’s children to that kind of engagement, to the extent that one of them lost his life, it will be unconscionable on my part to see the movement doing something for which the dead did not commit himself to.  If we want to take it at a very elementary level, just look at our recent political history. I am not making any allegations. Look at the CJ that came up sometimes ago, worked hard, was seen as a neutral organisation, was mobilizing the people to fight for what belonged to them. Eventually the opposition party came into power. What did we see? The entire leadership of the CJ are in bed with them. We saw that with others. For the people that have had the benefit of such history, you dont have to subscribe to any deal or arrangements with the existing opposition parties. Once you enter the field and behave like Occupy Ghana, CJ and others behaved. What you are simply doing is that you are working for the existing opposition. We couldn’t have repeated those mistakes. It is important to lay it out clearly that we are not here to do the bidding of the NPP and the NDC, and especially in this context, the NDC. Because the NDC is in the opposition.  We don’t want a situation like that. “We didn’t start here today; we have been at this for quite some time; If we are counting from 1992 till date, that will be about 30 years. I have voted for the NDC before, I have voted for the NPP before. In both cases they came to power and the things they said they were going to do, they did not do. It was the reason we joined the CPP, and it turned out they were not different from the NDC and the NPP.” Defining what he deemed the economic frontiers of his advocacy, Yeboah stated that: “When we say economic, we are simply talking about bread and butter. Everything that brings us to bread and butter is what we are interested in. We do not want anybody to be denied this. In our case it is kenke and fish. Economic activities are political. Man is instinctively drawn to the values of justice, care, principles of standing with one another. It can be debated. These are ideological issues. It is the way a society is woven that it would draw us to the point where some of these things that we talk about can become almost second nature. “We are confronted by existential realities which are wrapped up in neocolonialism. Under neocolonialism, you cannot be anything but a consumer. You are like a dog; you only eat what your master gives you. The various countries making up the African continent are all under the mastership of Europe and to a large extent the West and Asia. This is where we are. Until we confront issues of neocolonialism, many of these actions and questions may not yield much. That is why I think what is happening in Rwanda is a good example without linking it to the total liberation of the African continent. In a few years down, they will come down to ground zero. It was exactly what the likes of Kwame Nkrumah saw which on the day of Ghana’s independence declared that the independence of Ghana was meaningless until there was the total liberation of the entire African continent.”