Facts emerged on Sunday that the scheduled coronation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila as Aare Baasofin of Yorubaland can not hold due to the death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi which occured on Saturday, 23rd April, 2022. Confirming the development, Mr. Lanre Lasisi, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Speaker, House of Representatives, in a statement titled: ‘Aare Baasofin of Yoruba Land Chieftaincy ceremony’, explained that the coronation ceremony was delayed as a result of the Speaker’s busy schedule. According to the invitation printed by the Speaker’s office, the ‘Chieftaincy conferment ceremony’ as the ‘Supreme Legislative Guide for the Yorubaland Race’ was scheduled for Friday, May 27, 2022 at the Forecourt of Alaafin of Oyo’s Palace, Oyo State. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was scheduled to be the Chairman of the Occasion while Oba Babatunde Enitan Ogunwusi, Arole Oduduwa, Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife was slated to be the Royal Father of the Day. In response to the demise of Oba Adeyemi’s demise, Mr. Lasisi in the statement said: “You will recall that his Royal Highness, the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III communicated the conferment of the title of Aare Baasofin of Yoruba Land to Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila through an appointment letter dated September 7, 2021, and presented to the Speaker on Thursday, September 30, 2021, at the National Assembly, Abuja, by members of the Oyomesi Council led by the Bashorun of Oyo Kingdom, High Chief Olayinka Ayoola, who is the traditional Prime Minister of Oyo Kingdom and Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu; upon which the Speaker, in turn, accepted the appointment with gratitude to God. “However, due to the tight work schedule of the Speaker, the chieftaincy ceremony could not hold throughout 2021, until this year when the date of May 27, 2022, was agreed with the palace, but as God in His majesty will have it, the revered monarch passed away on Friday night before the distribution of invitation cards for the event (May Allah grant him Aljanah Firdaus).  “Naturally, the event can no longer hold as the Speaker, the entire Yoruba race and Nigerians home and abroad mourn the demise of the widely respected monarch.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE