A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Dr Olusola Ayandele, has inaugurated volunteers into a support group in furtherance of his bid to emerge as the Oyo South senatorial candidate of the party for the 2023 general election. The Ibarapa-born businessman made it to the final lap as a governorship aspirant of the Oyo APC in 2019 before stepping down for Chief Adebayo Adelabu who later emerged as the candidate of the party in the election which was eventually won by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr Seyi Makinde. Addressing scores of party faithful who besieged the head office of Dr Olusola Ayandele Foundation at Molete, Ibadan, to witness the brief ceremony on Wednesday, Ayandele disclosed that the inauguration of his Eruobodo 2023 Support Group was to Kickstart the necessary consultation and mobilisation efforts aimed at securing the nod of all the stakeholders and emerge as the standard-bearer of the APC for the Oyo South Senatorial District in 2023. He said: “Now that INEC has instructed all registered political parties to conclude their respective primaries on or before June 3, 2022, it is imperative for us to swing into action and reach out to all relevant stakeholders within Oyo APC and Oyo South Senatorial District in particular with a view to securing their support as the best aspirant who should be thrown up as the Oyo South senatorial candidate of our great party in the next general election. “As an experienced, passionate and patriotic son of the soil, I will deliver the good as I am well equipped to turn things around as desired. “You will all recall that I contested the APC governorship ticket in 2019 and despite the fact that I am from a minority zone of Ibarapa, I was able to mobilise enough support across the whole 33 local government areas in the state before I was made to sacrifice my ambition in the interest of the party. “This time, we have weighed all options before us and the best is to aspire to be in the Senate to serve Nigeria and the good people of Oyo South Senatorial district who deserve far better than what they get at present. “Oyo South is the nucleus of Oyo State and there is a lot which a competent person representing the district at the Red Chamber could do to improve its fortune.” Earlier, a former chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State Chapter, Chief Ademola Ojo, said the support group was to consult and galvanise delegates for Ayandele ahead of the party’s primaries, reiterating that it was not yet time for electioneering or campaigns. He stated that members of the group were drawn from across the nine local government areas in the district and tendencies in the party. Dignitaries who graced the occasion include Alhaji Sina Alabi, Chief Ademola Babarinde, Chief Alex Osula, Alhaja Ramota Okemakinde, Hon. Fatai Salau, Alhaji Taju Salaudeen, Hon. Kehinde Olaosebikan, Chief Ismaila Baale, Hon. Lanre Olaoseegba, Hon. Kolade Amoo, Hon. Kabiru Kareem, Mr Akeem Adeniran, Mrs Taiwo Moteleola and Hon. Josiah Olayiwola. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…