The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Mudashiru Obasa has sent greetings to Christians in the state and Nigeria as they join the world in the celebration of this year’s Easter. In an Easter message released by his media office, Dr Obasa noted the divine love of God for mankind as confirmed by the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ which is celebrated by Christians all over the world at Easter. He argued that such love, spread among neighbours, will help to put Nigeria in an enviable position among the comity of nations. According to Obasa, love comes before other considerations for a society’s existence or progress.  “It is love that propels peace. It is love that makes leaders want to act right. It is love that helps the followers to live in unity. Even Jesus noted that loving your neighbour is one of the most important commandments of God. “It is love that will help us build faith in our country and grow it further from where it currently stands. With love, there can’t be cases of man’s inhumanity to man. “Just as Easter allows us to understand the importance of love and forgiveness, I want to urge Nigerians to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus with sober reflection on His virtues and the lessons He left behind,” Obasa said. The Speaker further urged Christians to use the opportunity of the celebration to pray for a better Nigeria, a peaceful 2023 election, as well as divine wisdom for the leaders of the country. He promised that the Lagos State House of Assembly will continue to promote peaceful co-existence among residents by passing pro-people laws, motions and resolutions. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Obasa urges Nigerians Obasa urges Nigerians [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…Obasa urges Nigerians Obasa urges Nigerians ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts…Obasa urges Nigerians Obasa urges Nigerians ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…