Equities trading at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) begins the week on a positive note, picking up from where they left off last week. Riding on the gains in Stanbic IBTC Holdings, FBN Holdings and Guinness, the All-Share Index (ASI) advanced by 0.1 per cent to 47,545.86 basis points. Consequently, the Month-to-Date and Year-to-Date returns increased to +1.2 per cent and +11.3 per cent, respectively.
Equities investors, therefore, gained N19.13 billion as the market capitalization settled at N25.6 trillion as against an opening of N25.61 trillion. As measured by market breadth, market sentiment was, however, negative as 29 tickers lost relative to 21 gainers. On the performance board, Academy Press and John Holt recorded the most significant losses of the day having depreciated in value by 9.7 per cent and 9.3 per cent, while Meyer and Guinness topped the gainers’ list after their respective shares appreciated by 10.0 per cent and 6.9 per cent. Performance across sectors was mixed as the Oil & Gas and Industrial Goods indices closed flat, while the Banking and Insurance indices declined by 0.3 per cent and 0.1 per cent. The Consumer Goods index was the sole gainer of the day with 0.3 per cent increase. Analysis of market activities on Tuesday showed trade turnover settled higher relative to the previous session, with the value of transactions advancing by 76.69 per cent. A total of 365.45 million shares valued at N7.11 billion were exchanged in 5,790 deals.  Fidelity Bank led the volume chart with 33.76 million units traded, while MTN Nigeria led the value chart in deals worth N4.72 billion. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Equities investors earn N19.1bn as ASI increase marginally by 0.1% Equities investors earn N19.1bn as ASI increase marginally by 0.1%