In the last few years, Cryptocurrency trading has emerged as one of the most prominent investment channels in the world’s Fintech businesses, producing a huge number of multi-million dollar investors and millionaires from the Bitcoin trading venture. Prominent among the trail-blazing and thriving Bitcoin market commanding gurus is Nigeria’s Precious Aire, who has carved a niche for himself as the Chief Executive Officer of Vintage Confluence LLC, a web-based global platform that specialises in the trading of Bitcoins and USDT. Through his global experience gathered in his years of dogged and committed research into the depth of how it all works, Aire has emerged among the highflyers in the crypto world. Aire has made a landmark and set a footprint for prospective and upcoming Bitcoin trading investors with his huge impact on the market, which has set the ball rolling for intending investors at whatever level of their required capital capacity.  The young diligent and strategic Bitcoin trading icon is a serial entrepreneur and a real estate investor, and at the same time, one of Africa’s most influential Cryptocurrency traders, as rated among the top in 2021, according to Luno, a Cryptocurrency trading platform. Fondly called CEOVINTAGE, the dynamic bitcoin expert developed a keen interest in entrepreneurship as a 14-year old young lad, which he pursued ceaselessly, commencing his business life with his engagement in manual labors in different spheres of endeavour such as building construction, grass cutting, and street hawking, all in a bid to make extra funds for his upkeep. Having gathered vast knowledge and business experiences over the years, he was able to channel his teenage and academic experience in the university into becoming the man he is today. He is also the Founder and CEO of The Glen Homes, a property development company based in Nigeria. From his academic track records, Precious Aire obtained a one-year diploma certificate in desktop publishing in Benin City, Edo State Nigeria, and thereafter proceeded to bag a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Business Education and two other different certifications in forex and cryptocurrency trading in South Africa and the United Kingdom. Aire describes himself as one of the most optimistic, polite, and humble people one would ever meet. “My goal is not to be the most professional trader, but a profitable trader the world would ever come to know and reckon with. In my years of trading, I have never engaged in futures or margin trading, and I will never do. “I have a broad plan to teach and educate every young adult venturing into crypto space on the easiest and most convenient way to trade the cryptocurrency market in 2022,” he said. Cryptocurrencies are digital assets created using computer networking software that enables secure trading and ownership, while Bitcoin and most other cryptocurrencies are supported by a technology known as the blockchain, which maintains a tamper-resistant record of transactions and keeps track of who owns what. Public blockchains are usually decentralised, which means they operate without a central authority such as a bank or government. The term cryptocurrencies come from the cryptographic processes that developers have put in place to guard against fraud. These innovations addressed a problem faced by previous efforts to create purely digital currencies: how to prevent people from making copies of their holdings and attempting to spend them twice. Individual units of cryptocurrencies can be referred to as coins or tokens, depending on how they are used. Some are intended to be units of exchange for goods and services, others are stores of value, and some are mostly designed to help run computer networks that carry out more complex financial transactions. With this great advent of financial technology, the likes of Precious Aire have been able to bring the dreams of many into the limelight by exploring the opportunities and unveiling the mysteries in the business.