The Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Aminu Achida has defected from the All Progressive Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The speaker on Thursday officially notified the Assembly of his defection from the All Progressive Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Achida in a letter jointly signed with the Deputy Chief Whip, Hon. Alhaji Murtala Maigona, who represents Wamakko Constituency at the State Assembly said the decision is in order to pursue their political ambition. “Our decision to defect to PDP is in order to pursue our political ambition in a congenial atmosphere devoid of division, faction and crisis.  “The APC has throughout its chequered history remained a party of different interest groups, especially in Sokoto State. “This is where three different state congresses were held at three different places by three rival factions with Sen. Aliyu Wamakko faction electing Isa Sadiq-Achida as State Party Chairman. “Another faction of Sen. Abubakar Gada, electing Mainasara Sani, as State Chairman, while the other faction of Rep. Balarabe Salame, held their congress and elected Sirajo Abubakar as State APC Chairman,” he said. The Speaker further disclosed that the ugly developments have plunged the APC into serious litigations in several states of the federation. Thereby, putting the party in serious and present danger leading to mass defection in some states of the federation. “Irked and worried by the faction, division and acrimony among three factions in state and in order to avoid a repetition of Zamfara and Rivers States situation. “This is in the case of Rivers State, made the court to barred APC from contesting in 2019 general elections and Zamfara where the elected officials were sacked by the court,” he added. Achida, who represents Wurno Constituency at the Assembly said that their defection is in accordance with the letters and spirit section 109 (1) (g) of the Constitution of the Federation Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Sokoto Assembly Speaker, Deputy Chief Whip defect to PDP Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu Sokoto Assembly Speaker, Deputy Chief Whip defect to PDP