The Youth Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN) has asked the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to commence a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of a gospel artiste, Osinachi Nwachukwu, by her husband, Peter Nwachukwu. The Christian group said the probe became pertinent because the information gathered from friends and close family members pointed to the fact that Nwachukwu died as a result of injuries from domestic violence allegedly at the hands of her husband. National Chairman of YOWICAN, Belusochukwu Enwere, in a petition to the IGP, “we humbly write on behalf of YOWICAN, the umbrella body that coordinates and oversees the affairs of all the Christian Youths in Nigeria, over the sudden death of Osinachi Nwachukwu. “Prior to her demise, the deceased was a gospel minister, a singer and an artist. She was a devoted Christian and worshipped at Dunamis International Church, Airport Road, Lugbe, Abuja, and was 42 years old at the time of her death. “The deceased, Osinachi Nwachukwu was married to Peter Nwachukwu who also doubles as her manager, and with whom she had four children, all minors. “Information reaching us from reliable sources, including friends and close family members, has it that Osinachi Nwachukwu died as a result of injuries owing to domestic violence in the hands of her said husband, Peter Nwachukwu. “We as well gathered that the act of domestic violence has persisted unabated and has been largely kept away from the Christian fold and the general public before this unfortunate episode that led to her death, owing to the severe injuries she sustained, which mostly affected her vital organs. “Our prayers: It is in the light of the foregoing that we as leaders and representatives of the Christian youth body, of which Minister Osinachi Nwachukwu was a dedicated member, hereby petition that you use your good offices to cause an in-depth investigation into the circumstances surrounding the unfortunate death of this renowned music evangelist in order to ensure justice for late Minister Osinachi Nwachukwu, especially the purported role played by her husband that led to her death in order to ensure that she gets justice while bringing the perpetrators to book. Thank you, Sir, in anticipation of a speedy investigation.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Alleged murder: CAN youth wing writes IGP, seeks probe, justice for Osinachi [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Alleged murder: CAN youth wing writes IGP, seeks probe, justice for Osinachi