Foluso Ogunwale, a Fitness expert, has disclosed that physical inactivity and unhealthy lifestyle were the leading causes of some health challenges in the country. He said top on the list of these non-communicable diseases were cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and respiratory alone killing millions of people yearly. Ogunwale who is also the founder of the I-fitness gym made the disclosure during the inauguration of its 16th fitness outfit in Abuja. According to him, the firm had invested over N700million to deliver preventive healthcare. “For us, fitness has become a part of the health care delivery system, that is, preventive healthcare. “This is preventive health and since we are part of the system, so doing our bit counts a lot because, in Abuja, we are going to be touching thousands of lives,” he said.  He stated that the investment became imperative in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to aid healthy living amongst residents. While quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO) 2021 report, he noted that non-communicable diseases account for 71 per cent of global deaths. Similarly, he disclosed plans to create a digital platform which will assist people who cannot make it to the gym to keep fit especially those at the grassroots at an affordable price. Ms Nnenna Onyewuch, Board Member, i-fitness encouraged women especially married ones to keep fit for themselves saying “it is not about your husbands, it is about you.” Onyewuchi said that there was a strong correlation between physical health and mental health. She said that being active helps to tackle depression and coming to gyms brings people out of loneliness as they get to meet other people there. “Working out will help you feel better, but also coming here and meeting the amazing people here can help you form a community,” she said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Physical inactivity, unhealthy lifestyle leading causes of health challenges, says Fitness expert