Former Senate President and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Bukola Saraki has declared that insecurity has continued to sprawl in Nigeria because of a lack of accountability and the will to move against the perpetrators. Saraki said it has become a norm that perpetrators were often not prosecuted adding that people have done many terrible things without being held responsible for their actions. His words: “I was Senate President for four years, we sat down with the security agencies and we wrote a road map to address the issue of insecurity but today that report is still there. Maybe God wants one of us from the North Central to implement it. “I want to assure Nigerians that with your support that comes May 2023 if I become the President of this country I will bring to an end the insecurity that is going on in the North Central and the nation at large, people will be held accountable to do what is right and I will not accept injustice. “For somebody who has been the victim of injustice for 4 years, I know what injustice is all about, with me as your President it will be an end to injustice.” The Presidential aspirant who stated this while addressing National delegates of the PDP in Plateau State said the time has come for the North Central to produce the next president of Nigeria adding that it is only a president from this geo-political zone that unites the country.  He added that the North Central has been robbed in many diverse ways in the past by other parts of the country without complementary reward for the role the middle belt had played in the past to stabilise the country. “When it is time to get something, they will call us, but once it is done they forget us. We need to unite this country, this country has been so divided. We need a man that has the capacity, not a man that will say I am not aware of somebody that does not know what is happening,” he said. He added that the economy of Nigeria has continued to nosedive under the APC led administration adding that the only way to ameliorate the situation is to vote for somebody who understands the economy. Dr Saraki added that the government alone cannot develop Nigeria because the country is broke and surviving on borrowing adding that Nigeria needs a dynamic and well-informed president. “I am one of you, if you can give me the mandates I am ready to replicate what I have done in the past because in all where I have worked I have never failed,” he said. In his remark, the PDP Chairman of Plateau State, Hon Chris Hassan assured the presidential aspirant of their support and wished him well in his aspiration to be president of Nigeria. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE