Hundred of youths from Kajola community of Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo on Sunday went on a rampage following the death of three people including the community leader of the area at a police checkpoint. The angry youths who invaded the police station in their hundreds to burn the police station alleged the police of recklessness leading to the death of the three men at a police checkpoint in the area, along Lagos/Benin Expressways on Saturday evening. It was gathered that the three victims who included, David Olowofeyekun, Gbenga Abayomi and Kola Akinduro, were heading home from the farm on a motorcycle when they were stopped by policemen at the checkpoint. An eyewitness, Funmi Olowogboye, explained that the policemen refused to release the three men while they halted a Hilux van while the driver who tried to manoeuvre his way hit the three men on the motorcycle, killing them on the spot. According to her, the policemen fled the spot while the remains of the victim were taken to the village by the residents. She however said the angry youths took the corpses of the victim to the police station, protesting the death of the men and threatened to set the station ablaze to register their grievances.  ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE They declared that they do not want to see police in the community again, saying the police in the area failed to heed to the instructions of the state Commissioner of Police to dismantle all roadblocks in the state. A community leader, Chief Oloruntobi Maiyegun who spoke with journalists on phone, recounted that he had to swing into action the moment he heard that the people were mobilizing to burn the police station in order to forestall break down of law and order. He said it took the intervention of the State Police Commissioner, Mr Oyediran, who arrived at the town before 8:00 am with other security agencies to calm the frayed nerves and appealed to the angry youths for peace. The Chairman of Odigbo Council, Mrs Margaret Akinsuroju, said “Immediately I heard it yesterday, I started mobilizing police so that they could maintain peace so that there would not be a breakdown of peace and orderliness. “I learnt the youths were planning to burn the police station. They dropped the three corpses at the police station but we pleaded with them that it was an accident” Akinsuroju explained that there were two versions of the incident as the police narrated that they were killed by a hit-and-run driver and they tried to pursue the driver, only to come back to see angry mobs, who were trying to blame it on them and lynch them, but they escaped. “Other people were saying they mounted a checkpoint and it led directly to their death. The tension was so high, having counselled them and appealed to them not to torch the station.” But the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mrs Funmilayo Odunlami, dispelled the recklessness report against the police, saying that the deceased flouted the traffic law and incidentally had an accident. “It was not due to the recklessness of the police officers, they took one way and they had an accident. So there was no way the police can be reckless in a situation whereby there is a route to take and they took another one. “Of course, it was an oncoming vehicle that they collided with and died, it was not police recklessness there,” she said.