The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Anambra State Command, has deployed 1,977 of its personnel to ensure safety during the Easter celebration in the state. The command said the personnel have been deployed to worship centres, recreation centres and other areas where celebrations for Easter are billed to take place. A press release by the state Command Spokesperson, DSC Edwin Okadigbo, in Awka, on Monday, quoted his Commandant, Everestus C.Obiyo as listing various departments of the command that have been deployed. “Towards ensuring a hitch-free 2022 Easter celebrations, the state commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Anambra State Command, Everestus Obiyo has ordered the deployment of 1,977 officers and men of the command. “The men are drawn from Operations Department, Investigation and Intelligence Department, Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Female Squad, Chemical Biological Radioactive Nuclear and Energy unit (CBRNE). “Others are Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) Disaster Management Unit, Medical Unit, Special Force( SF), Agro Rangers Unit, Anti-Vandalism Unit and Critical National Assets and Infrastructure Protection Unit (CNAIP). “The essence is for crime prevention and crowd control, to cover places of worships, recreation centres, venues of celebration and other public facilities to forestall any break down of law and order.” ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The command said it will be working in collaboration with other security agencies in the operation and has also put in place measures to stave off any possible breach of peace, before, during and after the Easter celebration. Okadigbo said: “NSCDC personnel deployed for this assignment are under strict instructions of the state commandant to be of good conduct, act within the ambit of the extant laws, be firm and display a high level of professionalism in dealing with the members of the public in the discharge of their duties.” He charged members of the public to cooperate with them and also be security conscious, vigilant and report any untoward incident or happening observed in their locality to the nearest NSCDC office for necessary action. 