The casualty figure from the Tuesday evening explosion in Iware market situated 30km away from Jalingo has risen to 16, according to locals. Meanwhile, the Taraba State Police PPRO Usman Abdullahi for the state command told the correspondent that six deaths have been recorded. Mr Gbaabu, a local from the area who spoke to Nigerian Tribune explained that over ten people who were taken to the hospital with injuries have died last night. “As at the last count, 16 of our people have lost their lives. Some of them didn’t die on the spot but later died in the hospital last night. “The situation of those still in the hospital is not too good, we are only praying for their survival. “One can not tell how exactly the incident happened or who planted it, we want the security to carry out a vivid investigation to fish out the perpetrators”. He explained  Nigerian Tribune recalls Governor Darius Ishaku on several occasions raised the alarm that Boko-Haram terrorists were regrouping in Taraba. Tribune also recalls on 12/2021, terrorists in military uniforms blowoff a Catholic Church with an explosive in the Gassol local government area of the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Taraba explosive: casualties raises to 16, police confirmed 6 [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… Taraba explosive: casualties raises to 16, police confirmed 6