Following the launch of emPawa Africa, as an African focused music services company working with artistes, producers, and independent labels across Africa, including the likes of Nigerian Mega Superstar Joeboy, South Africa’s Superstar Duo Major League Djz, Ghana’s Iconic Legacy Life Entertainment, Tanzania Superstar Nandy, Gambian Superstar Jizzle, Dj Neptune, among others, the brand has succeeded in not only achieving continental success but also hitting major milestones. One of the successes Eazi’s emPawa Africa has recorded in recent times include over 3 billion streams, strategic publishing partnership with Kobalt, establishment of 15,000 capacity festival ‘detty rave’, setup of a premier events centre, investment in proprietary music, distribution and rights administration software, and rumoured to be concluding an investment round set to make it one of the most valuable music companies focused on Africa, the mogul popularly known as Mr Eazi has become a major player and investor in the African tech ecosystem. The African superstar was in Rwanda in the third quarter of 2021 to develop strategic relations as a foundation for the launch of multiple business interests in the country and in less than 10 months, Mr Eazi is again in Rwanda with several businesses launched in the country. Mr Eazi’s business portfolio in Rwanda now includes BetPawa, and emPawa amongst others. Mr Eazi’s franchise, BetPawa is one of Africa’s leading online sports betting platforms. According to him, “The online betting platform offers a wide range of football betting games to add to the thrill of following the continent’s favourite sport. Punters can stake in the most popular leagues; English league, Spanish league, and German to mention a few. Also, Basketball and other sports including virtual and local in-country games are available. There is a plethora of various betting options and entertainment on the site.” Mr Eazi: “Rwanda is fast turning into a preferred location for technology and innovation through a combination of visionary leadership and investment in infrastructure. The Rwandan government has shown a high level of commitment to entrepreneurs and innovators. “I am impressed by the processes in Rwanda and encouraged by the ease of doing business. The regulatory efficiency and support from the Rwanda Development Board, Ministry of Trade, Kigali International Finance Center, and other regulatory bodies, as this has enabled us to kick off operations in the country in less than a year from the incorporation stage,” he added. One might recall that Mr Eazi’s Venture Fund Zagadat Capital, backed African Fintech firm PawaPay in her seed funding round for mobile payments proliferation across Africa. “With 10 million transactions per week totalling 257.4 million transactions worth $1.2 billion, recorded in 2021, and integrated with over a dozen MNO’s, PawaPay is positioned as an industry leader in high volume mobile money payments on the continent. “Pawapay is now established in Zambia, Cameroon, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Ghana, and Rwanda is now fully operational and live after fulfilling all regulatory requirements,” he said. Mr Eazi’s investment across the continent is setting the young entrepreneur on the paths of Many African Entrepreneurs changing the narrative and defining ‘the New Africa’. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…