It is undeniable that when it comes to the use of the language, students of English are always distinct, outstanding and exceptional. This is because many of us do not only understand the intricacies of English grammar, but also can account how different rules affect different structures and units of English grammar. Similarly, since effective communication is key to every institution or organisation, our proficient linguistic skills in terms of speaking and writing in the language make us ready tools for global opportunities. We’re assured the possibility of exploring and thriving in any profession of human endeavour without making flaw.  However, contrary to the above factual assertions, it has become rampant these days to see those who are majoring in the language in various higher institutions distorting the grammatical structures of the English language. Their distortions ranging from spellings, to tense, concord and punctuations, have made many often question the quality of knowledge these students acquired from the course and the essence of pursuing a degree in the course in the first place. By implication, the overtly outstanding Department of English has been degraded among its peers.  That is why telling people you’re in a university majoring in English sounds absurd, ridiculous and weird. In perspective, it is now commonplace to see the so-called ‘English students’ using adulterated forms of the language to communicate with people  overtly and covertly on a daily basis. Is it not ignoble that we are the ones that now champion the league of those who speak pidgin at home, hostel, social gathering, religious places, or on campus? We don’t even care about that! To even add insult to injury, we now lead those who claim English is not their father’s language. If you try to prove me wrong, I would show a 300- level English student  who cannot explain how “the door is opened” and “the door is open” do not express similar ideas. I would also point to a 200-level student who wrote four distinct sentences without appropriating punctuation marks where necessary. I would point to a 100- level student who cannot apply simple rules of concord in writing. And a majority who cannot go beyond speaking standard English within two minutes without resorting to ‘broken English’. Frankly speaking, it is frustrating and shameful. And, we should collectively be sorrowful. The way forward?  From my critical observation, I discovered two factors responsible for this menace. First, our ignorance and nonchalance. I deem it necessary not to discountenance the fact that many of us had not wished to major in English in the first instance.  So, we consider the course as just being an imposition on us. That is the ignorance. Since we continue walloping in this ignorance, we begin nurturing nonchalance towards the course itself.  By implication, grammatical models, pragmatics, phonology, etcetera make no sense to us and we make no achievement from them. Until these two factors are overridden, we may just be wasting our time, efforts and resources with nothing to be accounted for in the end. Bear in mind that English remains the most prestigious language in the world. Perhaps your level of competence in it may determine the level of opportunities you may gain from it. Make wise from studying English, fellow mates. Speak with confidence! Write with pride. Show off your linguistic skills and let people be amazed. To wrap up with what Dr GAB will often admonish us to bear in mind: the pride of being a student of English and subsequently a graduate is to speak and make people happy with one’s speech. Mind you, this writer is also part of the audience of this piece. Adeleye is a student of English at the Lagos State University.