The Founder and Chief Sponsor, OCO World Limited, Okwudili Celestine Okwudili, has announced that the 2022 Nsukka Most Beautiful Girl Pageantry, Nigeria (NMBGN) will allow all promising girls from the 36 states to contest. He added that the winner of the pageantry will smile home with a brand new Toyota Spider and a trip to Dubai. He equally announced that the 1st runner up will win N500,000 and a trip to any national tourist centre, while the 2nd runner up will get N300,000 and a trip to a national tourist centre also. Okwudili made the announcement during the official unveiling of the 2021 winner of Nsukka Most Beautiful Girl/ announcement of the sale of forms for the 2022 edition of NMBGN tagged ‘Diva’s Edition’ at the Golden Valley Hotel Nsukka, Enugu State. According to Okwudili, who disclosed the announcement in a statement, he signed and made available to Nigerian Tribune in Awka, his intent is to showcase the rich cultural values and heritage, adding that apart from the prices being won by the pageants, OCO World equally supports the winners of the contest to embark on pet projects geared towards improving the lives of the people of Nsukka. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said the cultural programme has no tribal, ethnic and religious undertone. “The event is for all Nigeria beautiful girls, the Yorubas, Hausas, Fulanis, Tiv, Efik, Ibibio and the entire ethnicities in Nigeria,” he added. He also noted that “as it has been the custom of OCO World, every year, we try to look out for a young lady that will stand out in terms of beauty and intelligence in Enugu North Senatorial District. “This year we are extending the invitation for the 4th edition of Nsukka Most Beautiful girl Nigeria to all Nigerian girls as we target to promote Nsukka culture and value to all Nigerians and the world in general through beauty pageantry contest. “Our target is not just a good looking girl, but a Diva, one who will serve as a role model for other girls in Nsukka, Nigeria and the world over.”