The House of Representatives on Wednesday tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency tackle the activities of terrorists ravaging the country. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Yusuf Gadgi on the Terrorist attacks on Kanam Communities of Plateau State. Worried by the heinous crime perpetrated by the terrorists, the House urged Mr President on the need to direct the Minister of Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, the Inspector General of Police and the Director-General of the State Security Service to initiate a coordinated joint security operation and provide aerial surveillance and support to flush out the terrorist and destroy their camps, particularly in Kambari in Taraba State and Bangala in Wase Local Government Area of Plateau State. No fewer than 92 persons were killed by the terrorists while over 20 persons sustained various degrees of injury during the attack.  Hon. Gadgi who frowned at the development observed that at around 10 am, terrorists unleash terror on the People of Kanam Local Government and neighbouring Communities killing 92 persons, injuring over 20 people and destroying properties in Kukawa, Kyaram, Gyambau and Dungur among other communities. A total of 41 houses, 86 shops and eight motorcycles were completely burnt and destroyed leaving a total of 3,413 persons displaced, on Sunday, 10th April 2022. He lamented that “despite intelligent reports by the Department of State Service, on the influx of terrorist fleeing to Plateau and other neighbouring communities of Wase and Kanam Local Government Areas, no proactive measures were initiated by security agencies to avert these ugly terror attacks. “The security agencies have reliable information at their disposal of the various camps of these terrorists in Kambari forest in Taraba State as well as Bangala in Wase Local Government Area of Plateau State where these terrorists use to organize and coordinate attacks on innocent citizens of Plateau State and other parts of Nigeria.” Hon. Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau) said: “Who’s responsible is the question. We have Governors, we have National Assembly members, who are responsible for the safety, security of lives and properties of the people of this country. Without fear of political misrepresentation, it’s Mr President. “We must ask ourselves questions, insecurity issues will never be discussed correctly if you don’t detach political affiliation from it. Is Mr President aware of what is going on in this country? Before people are killed one of the operational Commandants must be responsible, for who allowed that thing to happen. “Who are the various security agencies that are supposed to protect the lives of the people, of course, the Armed Forces, call them. “We both vote money to these agencies every year and we provide a supplementary budget to them. We must hold someone accountable, there must be someone somewhere that has neglected his responsibility. “Either the President doesn’t hold the services accountable for protecting the lives of citizens of Nigeria and the service’s commandant too for not responding to security reports and distress calls and allowing Nigerians to be killed like animals. “This is not acceptable. We must hold somebody responsible for failing in the discharge of the duties to Nigeria people,” Hon. Gadgi stressed. On his part, Hon. Bamidele Salam (PDP-Osun) said: “We have come to a situation in this country where evil is perpetrated and no one is held accountable for the perpetration. “We are the privileged class, we move around with convoys and security men, we are being paid to occupy this position of privilege by the sweat and taxes of some people. “The part of this motion that touched me was the reference that there were early warning signals, the information is given to security agencies about the plans by some terrorists to attack innocent persons and this information was not acted upon by the security agencies. “Is it that they feel the information is not important or that there are people they can’t touch, we must get to the root of this matter. “This has to come to a stop, it appears there’s the absence of government from executive level, the parliament must rise up to that responsibility.” In his contribution, Hon. Fatuhu Mohammed (APC-Katsina) underscored the need for the Parliament to keep faith with the Nigerian people and oath of office taken. “I advise that we the National Assembly as lawmakers need to do more than we think we are doing. When it’s appropriation period we don’t take things seriously. “These people will come and present their budget and we approve and they move on. There’s no oversight so how do you excuse to checkmate them. It’s business, there’s no military coup so they know the only way they can make money is through this. “In my constituency, no security is doing his job, they all ask for money, and none is willing to come out and protect the lives and properties of Nigerians. I don’t understand what is happening in this country.” While ruling, the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Idris Wase (APC-Plateau) who presided over the session, affirmed that: “the early warning that was given I brought the motion and it was well debated. “This situation is not about politics, anyone that wants to politicize this is making a huge mistake. In my own community, we had a soldier who was supposed to be in Zamfara given a pass for consecutively six months, giving uniform to the bandits. “Till this moment he has not been taken to Court. I want you to understand the complicity of security agencies in this matter. Why would you give your personnel six months pass? “Even when we raise motions it’s sufficient for securities to act but they are adamant. Drastic actions must be taken against some officers.” Also speaking, Chairman House Committee on Police Affairs, Hon. Bello Kumo (APC-Gombe) said: “I believe the President of the country is responsible for every action or inaction that happened in the land. “He took an oath that he’s going to perform his responsibilities and duties without fear or favour. I believe he’s old enough to give this country the leadership it requires, but why I blame the President is why would he believe monopoly of knowledge. “Why would continue maintaining one national security adviser over all these years of your government. The NSA is supposed to present to the President an executive summary of the security situation of the land, and the President will act on his advice. “So why keep someone who cannot see outside the box? If the President means well for this country he must sack the National Security Adviser and the minister of Defence. “A Minister that cannot move to Kaduna when there is a train attack, how can he coordinate the defence apparatus.” In the bid to ensure the safety of lives and property in the area, the lawmakers urged the Chief of Army Staff to establish Military bases in the affected communities in Angon-Gyero, Kyensar in Munbutbo, Garga, Kyaram, Gyambau, Kukawa, Dada areas of Garga, Dugub in Kanam Local Government Areas. The House also urged the Inspector General of Police to immediately deploy Mobile Police Force Squadrons to maintain law and order and provide Mobile Police Force Squadron formation in the affected communities. To this end, the House mandated the joint Committees on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness, Armed forces (Defence, Army, Navy, Air force), Police, National Security and Intelligence as well as Legislative Compliance to ensure compliance and furnish the House with a weekly report until the insecurity is brought under control. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Reps unhappy as terrorists  Reps unhappy as terrorists Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Reps unhappy as terrorists  Reps unhappy as terrorists