Relevant stakeholders of the People’s Democratic Party have blamed the governor of Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde for portraying the chieftains of the party in bad light before its national leadership. Addressing the newsmen in Ibadan on Tuesday, the stakeholders led by the former Deputy Governor and governorship aspirant, Hazeem Gbolarumi said the governor has succeeded in causing division among the ranks and files of the party. Gbolarumi stated that Makinde has broken the ladder of unity that he rode on to victory in 2019, as he now refers to them as aggrieved members. According to him, the stakeholders are insignificant and inconsequential as Makinde never wants to relate to the PDP platforms for deliberations and suggestions on how to move the state forward to the credit of the state. He said Makinde has derailed from the principle and goals of the PDP which are: good governance, equity, probity and accountability. Gbolarumi added the state is not fairing well under the leadership of Makinde, warning that if urgent steps are not taken, it may deprive the party of the opportunity to seize power from the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in 2023.  He, therefore, enjoined the national body of the party to ensure that the Party does not lose to another Party in the state due to the present situation of things, as elimination of grassroots support is completely threatened just as cautioned party members at all levels must be wary of agents of distractions and division in the party He said some of the expected achievements from the Governor by members and elders of the Oyo State PDP that worked assiduously for him to be elected on the platforms of PDP, he has grossly disappointed them on, particularly, economy, insecurity, education, agriculture, healthcare, rule of law, the entrenchment of democracy among others. “Whatever economic policy that the Governor has been making use of in his administration, such has not focused on creating a market-based economy driven by small and medium scale businesses made accessible to the people, the basic needs of life nor aided him in pursuit of a strong. virile, and diversified economy that is built on stopping or reducing rural-urban migration, due to investments in modern agricultural facilities, methods, and training. “The Governor has no iota of respect for wise counsels and suggestions from State Members and Leaders of the Party, meaning, the Governor has never been ready to promote and nurture democratic ideals and traditions of the Party on a sustainable basis. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… PDP Stakeholders blame Makinde for party internal crisis We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train PDP Stakeholders blame Makinde for party internal crisis