Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has chided those who think that politics and governance are about empowering self, friends and elites to the detriment of the masses who constitute the majority. Speaking during the inauguration of two bus terminals in the Challenge and Ojoo areas of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Tuesday, Obaseki bemoaned that governments that take decisions in the interest of the masses continue to face serious opposition. Obaseki especially lauded Governor Seyi Makinde’s government for embarking on projects based on data, facts and in the interest of the people, noting that with the likes of Makinde, the nation had hope for a better tomorrow. He urged all and sundry to understand that the purpose of governance is to serve the majority and not the few elite. Obaseki said: “As long as Nigeria has people like you (Seyi Makinde) in government, people who make decisions not on emotions but on data, facts, affecting the majority of the masses of the people, not a few who are elites, then Nigeria has hope. “The purpose of politics, governance is to cater for the masses of the people of our country. You will continue to have problems like I am having because there are people who feel being in power is just to empower themselves and their few friends and not to use the resources for the masses of the people that you are elected to govern.”  While lauding Makinde for building two modern bus terminals, Obaseki said it was expedient to also consider building more of such terminals to efficiently connect the entire state. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Challenge and Ojoo bus terminals are one of four terminals awarded by the Seyi Makinde government in May 2020, with the manager of the project, Mr Biodun Otunola stating that the remaining two terminals at Iwo Road, Ibadan, will be completed by the end of the year. Coupled with Monday’s bus terminals opening was the launch of the Omituntun mass transit scheme. In his remarks, Makinde said his administration embarked on the building of the four bus terminals in recognising the need for an efficient transportation system in the state. He added that the projects were also in recognising the need for the state to leverage the advantageous location of Ibadan as a bypass for many Nigerians in and out of the South-West geopolitical zone of the country. Makinde said the bus terminals were also targeted at boosting commerce and tourism in the state. Addressing fears that government’s projects usually go moribund, Makinde said the state was adopting a Public-Private partnership approach to sustainably manage the bus terminals. He said: “One of the things we knew Ibadan needed when we came into office is an effective transportation system. “By virtue of its location, Ibadan has always been a town where travellers can layover, either on their way out of or into the South-West. The data then said it was time to build on that comparative advantage. I promised that when we spend a dime of Oyo state money on infrastructure, that infrastructure must target our economy and this is an example of it. Jobs will be created. “We are leveraging on that comparative advantage on the geographical location of Ibadan. We have built standard bus terminals that can compete with any in the world, as well as business activities and tourism. “We know of the fact that government’s projects usually go moribund, so, we are going the Public-Private partnership route, in a sustainable manner. “The commissioning of these two bus terminals marks a new dawn in transportation in Oyo state. We are committed to redefining governance. With each project, we commission we continue to raise the bar.” The wife of the former governor of Oyo state, Mrs Mutiat Ladoja, who gave a goodwill message, said the state needed more such bus terminals to enhance the transport sector of the state. She enjoined residents to utilise the facilities as their personal belongings and cooperate with the current administration for the more progressive development of the state. Among dignitaries present at the event were the representative of the Olubadan of Ibadan land, High Chief Abiodun Kola-Daisi; the Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Abdulganiy Adekunle; Okere of Saki, Oba Khalid Oyeniyi; Honourable Abass Adigun representing Ibadan North-East/South-East constituency; Oyo South Senatorial aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Joseph Tegbe; state chief judge, Justice Munta Ladipo; Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Honourable Abiodun Fadeyi; PDP chieftain, Mrs Bose Adedibu; Chairman, Pacesetter Transport Services, Mr Dare Adeleke; members of the state executive council and of the state House of Assembly. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Governance shouldn’t be to empower self, friends, elites but masses ― Obaseki Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Governance shouldn’t be to empower self, friends, elites but masses ― Obaseki Governance shouldn’t be to empower self, friends, elites but masses ― Obaseki