If we sit back and examine where Nigeria is today, we will all agree that we are losing a country. All is not well with us as a nation. From unemployment to insecurity, the story of our country is not getting better. It is a fact that I am just 37 years but I have seen quite enough of Nigeria to be able to talk about history, at least for the past 20 years that I left college. I grew up in Adikpo the headquarters of Kwande Local Government in Benue State where I schooled at St Andrew’s Secondary School. In the late 90s and early 20s, there were these women selling bush meat and dried fish. They used to buy the product from Maiduguri and bring to Adikpo.. By evening, they return back to Katsina Ala through another night vehicle. Today nobody dares these routes in the night. Even at day when one is to travel through these routes, he keeps his eyes at all corners while his knees are bent in the mind praying for safety. The issue of insecurity has affected every facet of the economy in all parts of Nigeria not just Benue or Northern Nigeria. Part of what has caused this insecurity is unemployment. Within Benue State for instance, the situation keeps deteriorating daily and the story is same across Nigeria. Places like Kwande, logo, Guma, Gwer west and other local government areas in Benue State, no week passes without stories of someone being hacked down by criminals. The most worrisome region Benue State is the Katsina Ala – Ukum – Logo axis where youths have allegedly taken up arms to terrorize the area after the death of their commander Mr Terwase Akwaza. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  This has made many people to lose their businesses, creating another economic hardship. This was an area where before now the youths were predominantly farmers and were always so proud of their farm profession and lifestyle. Our greatest challenge is leadership. The same people we knew 20 years ago, are the same crop that have remained in control. These leaders have misled the people and instead of stepping aside decided to recruit and arm militias to help perpetuate themselves in leadership. They have made things worse but they will never admit. They will never leave the stage. This issue is visible across all regions in Nigeria. What shall the people do to get out of this situation? We must make deliberate efforts to fight poverty and empower our youths. Good people must stand up to rescue our society. If we want a better Nigeria that will be safe for our children, we must act and act now supporting and projecting new people with fresh ideas into leadership. Nigeria deserves fresh blood to be injected into the polity. All hopes are not lost if we can stand up together and rescue Nigeria. Comrade Martin Iorsamber, Benue