A popular Nigerian film actor, Abdullateef Adedimeji, has bankrolled tuition fees of over 400 aspiring university students in partnership with an educational consultant to prepare them for the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) test. Speaking with the Tribune Online, Adedimeji, who is also the founder of Great Minds Initiative (GMI), said that the initiative was intended to ease the socioeconomic circumstances of parents who are striving to provide the best for their children. “It is important to give students access to quality education and hence increase their chances of gaining admission into the university. This is one of our goals at Great Minds Initiative (GMI). We believe that unrestricted access to quality education guarantees the future of every child”, he said. The Nollywood actor, who expressed optimism that participants at the training programme held in Lagos State would pass the JAMB exams with flying colours, said that, “rather than looking for a shortcut, a responsible student will make the most of this opportunity. “This is the reason I partnered with Lankotheory Education Services Limited as the designated institute for the programme. Therefore, I am expecting students to work hard and target merit as it is the most effective way to spearhead change in the society while closing the gap in moral laxity”. Adedimeji, who said that his joy would be to see the students gained admission and graduated with good grades, added that, “despite adversity and challenges, we as individuals, organisations and as a country, can unite together in changing the society with the right commitment”.  On his future plan and programmes for the beneficiaries, the sponsor said that he hoped to increase number of beneficiaries in subsequent programmes. “Training or preparing over 400 students from this community to excel in the JAMB examination is somewhat less than the entire number of students we aim to train, but we expect to be able to accommodate more next year”, he said.