Emirates has ranked among the top 100 most reputable organisations in the world by 2022 Global RepTrak 100. This is jus as no airports from African countries including Nigeria was ranked among the top 10 busiest airports worldwide for 2021 according to a report released by Airports Council International (ACI). The world airport rankings according to ACI, the trade association of the world’s airports, were based on the preliminary compilation of 2021 global data from airports around the world. The ACI rankings reflected the most updated airport data used by the industry and include passenger traffic, cargo volumes, and aircraft movements.  Emirates, the Dubai-based airline was the only company from the Middle East and North Africa region to make it to the list, with a reputation score of 72.7. N CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE As the world’s largest reputation database with over 20 years of data, the RepTrak Platform compared companies across different industries worldwide, by analysing millions of perception and sentiment data points from online surveys. The scores companies achieved represented what their stakeholders thought and felt about their brand. During the pandemic, Emirates led the industry on many initiatives to rebuild travel confidence and support the recovery of the travel and tourism industry. It also supported communities and economies with the transport of vaccines, medicines, and essential trading goods. The airline operates one of the most modern and efficient aircraft fleet comprised spacious and comfortable Airbus A380 and Boeing 777 aircraft and has recently introduced the much talked-about Premium Economy product, which has won over customers for its spacious seat and legroom, among other features. On the environmental front, Emirates is also a long-time supporter of wildlife preservation and has remained committed to reducing its carbon footprint and environmental impact through sustainable initiatives, including blankets made from 100% recycled plastic bottles and reducing single-use plastics on board its aircraft. The 2022 Global RepTrak 100 is the definitive ranking of corporate reputation for the world’s leading companies.