The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has said the absence of Presidential Executive Order 5, led to the decline of the petroleum refineries as Nigerian engineers were not involved in the construction and repair of the refineries in the first place. Onu stated this in his speech at the sensitisation workshop of the staff of FMSTI on the full implementation of the Presidential Executive Order 05, on Thursday, in Abuja. The Executive Order is a revolutionary one aimed at mandating procuring entities to give preference to Nigerian companies and firms in the award of contracts in line with the Public Procurement Act of 2007, as well as the engagement of Nigerian professionals in areas where their requisite expertise is available, among others. Onu disclosed that the essence of Executive Order 5, is to ensure that Nigeria acquires technologies that will help in positioning the nation toward self-sufficiency. He said: “The Executive Order is revolutionary as it is a contribution of the Ministry towards transforming the nation to the level of greatness ordained by God.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  He appreciated President Buhari for his support and also urged Nigerians to support the full implementation of the Executive Order, for the sustainable growth and development of the country. On the recently revised STI policy, the Minister said that when fully implemented it will be the key to unlock great opportunities for the country’s overall socio-economic development. In her welcome address, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs Monilola Udoh, said that every average Nigerian must be aware of Executive Order 5 in terms of skills and resources. She further added that relevant MDAs and stakeholders should take the sensitization exercise serious, in order to transfer the knowledge gotten during the course of the workshop. The National Coordinator of the Strategy implementation task office of the Presidential Executive Order No. 05 (SITOPEO-5), Ibiam Oguejiofor, said the order will encourage Nigerian youths to be at the centre of socio-economic activities. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Absence of Executive Order 5 declined petroleum refineries ― Minister