Osun State Governor, Mr Gboyega Oyetola, has urged members of the Igbo community living in the state to continue to embrace peaceful coexistence with host communities. Oyetola gave the advice during an engagement meeting with the newly elected executives of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Osun Chapter on Thursday in Osogbo. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the Governor further said that growth and development only thrive in Nigeria when there is security and peaceful coexistence among people of different tribes residing in any part of the country. He maintained that harmonious relationships and peaceful coexistence among Nigerians irrespective of tribes or ethnic groups would help the country to overcome its current challenges. The governor, who further commended members of the Igbo community for their support in sustaining the peaceful atmosphere in the state, noted that he would continue to protect their interests. “Nigeria is a great and prosperous country. And for us to continue to enjoy this greatness, there must be peace and stability in the land.  “Intolerance and insurgency lead to poverty, hunger, unemployment, unrest, among others.  These and many more are reasons we must continue to live together in peace,” Oyetola said. “You are an important part of us in this state. And I will continue to provide the enabling environment for your businesses to grow,” the Governor added. Earlier in his remarks, the President of the group, John Dike, lauded the Governor for his love for humanity which has made Osun a peaceful state without intertribal conflicts. Dike added that their businesses had been thriving well because of the prompt payment of workers’ salaries in the state. He also commended the Governor for various developmental projects across the state, adding that the group would continue to live peacefully with other tribes and also throw their weight for the Governor’s re-election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Oyetola charges Igbos in Osun on peaceful coexistence Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. Oyetola charges Igbos in Osun on peaceful coexistence