Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mustapha Habib Ahmed has approved the creation of the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) in the Agency in line with the Federal Government’s policy in the fight against corruption and standards by the Independent Corrupt Practices and related offences Commission (ICPC). Speaking at the inauguration of the unit by a team from ICPC at NEMA headquarters in Abuja, Mr Ahmed said it had become imperative to have a functional anti-corruption unit in NEMA that is recognized by ICPC. He explained that “there was an inaugurated ACTU in the Agency in 2014 for the first time, the tenure which ended in 2017. “Since then, the existence of ACTU in the Agency was not recognized by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission as it was not established as statutorily required. “Upon assumption of office and having been informed of the mandate of ACTU in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), it became paramount for me to ensure that this inauguration takes place as quickly as possible.” The Director-General of NEMA also said that: “the collective fight against corruption cannot be overemphasized,” adding that “this is no wonder the ICPC through its mandate thought it wise to establish ACTUs in the MDAs.” He also said: “though it is common knowledge that the fight against corruption in MDAs through ACTU and generally, is financially related, that is only an aspect of it. “It involves ensuring that the systems of the public MDAs work efficiently and effectively as appropriate, as well as ensuring ethical standards and compliance within the workplace. Enlightenment of the workforce on corruption-related matters, monitoring of budget for the effective outcome is also encompassed in this fight.” While congratulating members of the newly inaugurated Anti-Corruption Unit, he also enjoined them to take their “responsibilities with all seriousness being a key machinery to ensure the proper functioning of NEMA.” In his remark, ICPC Chairman, who was represented by Ms Lasisi Mutiat appealed to all MDAs to support the anti-corruption fight in the public sector. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…