Three aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who conceded the candidature of the party to Dotun Babayemi as the standard-bearer in the last primary election in preparation for the July governorship election, on Saturday, handed over their party structures to him with a pledge to work with him to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) ruling party. The trio of a former secretary to the state government, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Dele Adeleke and Sanya Omirin, described the candidature of Babayemi as the only authentic candidate of the party for the next election while speaking at the residence of Akinbade in Osogbo. In his speech, Alhaji Akinbade charged all his political supporters to henceforth give their loyalty to him and affirmed to work in togetherness towards ensuring he becomes the next governor of the state. Akinbade who insisted that it is only in unity and oneness that the party could outsmart other political parties in the next governorship contest appealed to all party members to see themselves as one and shun any firm of acrimony, segregation, favouritism, sectionalism and differences that could cripple the party chances in the exercise. Speaking in the same vein, Omirin and Dele Ojo affirmed that Babayemi is the only authentic candidate for the race, but advised all party members to absorb Senator Ademola Adeleke’s political camp, whenever they discover that they have deviated from the right path. In his response, Babayemi appreciated all the three aspirants and pledged not to let them down. According to him, the project is not meant for him alone but for all to be able to reach the promised land. He expressed optimism that with all party members’ support, he would go places and the project would be accomplished without much stress. He assured that the state would be transformed and march forward from its present stagnation when he becomes the next governor of the state. Meanwhile, Omirin was represented by Jide Bakare at the occasion. 