Chief (Mrs) Atinuke Bello, the Whip of Ogun State House of Assembly, spoke with the media during one of her empowerment programmes in Odogbolu recently where she spoke on Ogun State House of Assembly, and her empowerment programmes, among other issues. Sunday Tribune was also there and brought this excerpts.  As the chief-whip of the Ogun State House of Assembly, what would you say are the major achievements of the 9th Assembly? We’ve been able to promulgate laws that seek the welfare of the people of the state.This is always our focus because the major focus of government should be the welfare of the people. Our focus mainly is to create socio-economic rights for our citizens which had hitherto been unenforceable, so that they can thrive and achieve their dreams.  As an individual lawmaker what would you say are your own contributions? As a lawmaker, I have single-handedly sponsored a resolution calling for 35 per cent inclusion for women in governance. I have also sponsored a resolution of 10 per cent minimum inclusion in governance of youths and people with disabilities. If we are able to fully achieve these Ogun State will be the envy of other states in the country.  You have consistently served the people of your constituency by empowering them, especially market women. What feedbacks do you get from such empowerment programmes that guide you on what they actually need? We have done several of these empowerment programmes since our inception in 2019; we are only trying to complement what Governor Dapo Abiodun has in mind for the people of the state and that is for the people to be well looked-after by alleviating their suffering and reducing poverty in our communities. These we intend to do without relenting. The feedbacks we have from our people is that there is need to do more given the extent of need at the grassroots level. We intend to keep on improving on the quality of life of our people and I believe posterity will be kind to us.  The youth in every part of the country constitute the single largest group, how have you been able to impact the lives of this group in your constituency? As a mother and responsible woman, I know the future of Nigeria lies on us women. When you train a woman,you are training the whole nation and if you train the children, it is a good thing because they are our future. We have continued to empower them with different skills to make them independent. As for children, we have given out thousands of school bags and exercise books to support their parents. We are now working on a deworm exercise and to organise seminars for mothers on health issues facing them.  What is your perception of Governor Abiodun’s administration and a second term bid? If I say that my governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun is the best governor in the whole country that would be an understatement. He is a silent achiever and has been doing marvelously well and I am recommending other state governors to emulate him.  It is public knowledge that members of the 9th Assembly in Ogun State have not be given any constituency allowance and we are in the third year now; what are your comments on this? Constituency allowance is very important and it is meant to bring about development but I must say that development is a continuous thing. I am also a very lucky lawmaker. In my own constituency I can say that there are so many laudable projects already. I’m a beneficiary of dividends of democracy with regards to projects executed by Governor Abiodun’s administration. Recently, President MuhammaduBuhari visited Ogun State to commission some multi-billion naira laudable projectswhich fall in my constituency. Such gigantic projects cannot be compared to the so-called constituency projects. As we speak, about 287 kilometres of newly constructed and reconstructed roads have been completed, including 300 kilometers of reconstructed and rehabilitated township and rural roads at different stages of completion. These projects are millennium projects even bigger than any constituency projects; so what else do we want?  How will you described Prince Dapo Abiodun Executive Governor? Our Excellency ,Prince DapoAbiodun is a Godly person and a man of substance ,he is an asset to our nation and I just want to appeal to people to encouraged him because  if somebody is doing something nice, something good ,he should not be discouraged so that we can still get best out of him. I can assured you that he still has a lot to contribute and he has already started and I can assure you,if you give him more chance,he would still do better than he is doing.  Asiwaju as you usually called,what should we expect from your desk in the next dispensation under Prince Dapo Abiodun? If elected and return to Ogun State House of Assembly with my indefatigable leader ,Prince DapoAbiodun by the electorates in Odogbolu State Constituency and Ogun State in general I will provide more quality legislative duties and defend my constituent interest  on the floor of the house and believe as am used to I will continued to sponsors more empowerment programme to my constituent. 