The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has come out to assure that henceforth violators of traffic rules would be subjected to a three-day compulsory training. The Director, Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Dr Abdulateef Bello, who disclosed this on Monday, said the violators will also be prosecuted by a Mobile Court before they get back their vehicles. Bello also revealed that within two weeks of offensive operations, about 152 vehicles, 326 Motorcycles and 15 Tricycles were impounded at various places. “The operations have been about getting rickety vehicles out of town and also ensuring that Okadas are kept out of restricted areas. So far we have taken off the streets about 152 motor vehicles, 326 Motorcycles, 15 Tricycles and about 22 dispatches. “They are going to be made to face the law as quickly as possible before they face the mobile court, three days training compulsorily to acquaint themselves with the rules and regulations in using our roads. They have to pay for the training and also pay their fines. They have to understand the road culture,” Bello added. Also speaking, Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Ikharo Attah, who led the team, said the work of sanitising the city has become very taxing that all relevant agencies need to forge a collaborative partnership. Attah noted that the ongoing onslaught against traffic offenders and other criminalities in Abuja was a resolve of FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello to maintain the standards required of a model City. He stated that the Enforcement through Area 1, Apo Bridge, Lugbe-Airport and Gishiri Junction, was an energised exercise that will be sustained. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.FCTA to subject traffic offenders to compulsory training FCTA to subject traffic offenders to compulsory training