FOLLOWING the persistent killings going on across the country, especially in the North, the Northern Elders Forum(NEF) has again called for the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari. Director, Publicity and Advocacy of NEF, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, made the call on Tuesday, while commenting on the state of the nation. According to him, “The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari does not appear to have answers to the challenges of security to which we are exposed. “We cannot continue to live and die under the dictates of killers, kidnappers, rapists and sundry criminal groups that have deprived us of our rights to live in peace and security. “Our constitution has provisions for leaders to voluntarily step down if they are challenged by personal reasons or they prove incapable of leading.  “It is now time for President Buhari to seriously consider that option since his leadership has proven spectacularly incapable of providing security over Nigerians. “Our forum is aware of the weight of this advice and it is also aware that we cannot continue to live under these conditions until 2023 when President Buhari’s term ends.” Baba-Ahmed posited that NEF made the recommendation with the highest sense of responsibility, saying he hoped Nigerians who enjoyed Buhari’s trust and confidence would tell him to resign honourably. He lamented that killings and assaults on communities have become a daily occurrence, with lives becoming meaningless. “Killers and other criminals appear to have sensed a paralysing vacuum at the highest levels of leadership and they grow more confident and acquire more competence in subverting the state and our security. “Nigerians have shed enough tears and blood without appropriate response from those with responsibilities to protect us. “There are also groups who deepen the concerns of Nigerians over the possibility of a safe and free campaigning and conduct of the 2023 elections,” he said. The forum warned against comments unbecoming of elders, which it said detract from the genuine search for good leaders in the country, as it promises a commitment to dialogue with politicians and groups to lower tension and threat to the democratic process. It, therefore, condoled families who had lost members and prayed that those kidnapped would be reunited with their loved ones without delay