The House of Representatives on Thursday tasked Federal Government to promote the use and importation of low energy consuming appliances. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Hon. Rotimi Agunsoye. While noting that other countries have stopped the use of high consuming appliances and equipment, he observed that energy-efficient appliances help prevent greenhouse emissions and protect the environment as most households use appliances such as televisions, refrigerators, sound systems, computers, ovens, bulbs, air conditioners, and washing machines, etc. “The House also notes that countries across the world are using energy-efficient appliances, which is critical to economic development as well as environmental sustainability. “The House is concerned that households in Nigeria still use incandescent bulbs with high voltage, which are very expensive and generate too much heat. “The House is aware that in some households the incandescent bulbs have been replaced with light-emitting diodes (LED) bulbs, which are up to ninety percent more efficient than incandescent bulbs. “The House observes that the crisis in the country’s power sector will persist if a decisive approach is not employed at controlling domestic, commercial and industrial usage through adopting more efficient means to reduce energy consumption. “The House is cognizant that using energy-efficient appliances and equipment minimizes the exploitation of natural resources such as natural gas, coal, water, diesel, petrol, etc., and serves to enhance the conservation of these resources as a way of achieving sustainable development. “The House is disturbed that as other countries have stopped the use of high consuming appliances and equipment, Nigeria has become a dumping ground for such items which come at a considerably cheap price. “The House is cognizant that the continued importation of non-energy efficient products will impact negatively on the economic stability of the country,” he noted. To this end, the House mandated the joint Committees on Power and Industry to ensure compliance and report back within four weeks for further legislative action. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…