In yet another attack in Plateau State, gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen on Thursday killed two persons and 20 houses in Bassa Local Government Area. Parts of the local government have come under attack by gunmen in recent times. In the attacks, many farmlands and crops were destroyed. The state chapter of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) had accused the natives of poisoning their cattle, leading to the death of 90 cows. The national president Irigwe Development Association (IDA), Prince Robert Ashi, on Friday, disclosed that two people were gunned down on Thursday and 20 houses burnt in a midnight raid by the gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in Laake village in Kwall District of the council area. According to him, the gunmen, in their numbers, swooped on Laake village at about 9.00 p.m. and went on a burning spree, leading to the death of two people. Ashi said: “The people of the village had retired to bed when the gunmen attacked the village at about 9.00 p.m. They killed two people, burnt down twenty houses and injured five persons. It is unfortunate that this kind of attack can take place when security men are trying to halt the orgy of killings in Irigwe land. “Those who carried out this attack are still lurking around, many of them are on top of the hills around us but I don’t know why it is difficult for the security agencies to dislodge them” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Gabriel Ubah Ogaba simply said: “I will get back to you” but had yet to do so as of the time of this report. THE military has confirmed that there are traces of bandits around three states of Bauchi, Plateau and Taraba which make up the area of operational coverage of the 3 Division of the Nigerian Army, Jos. The General Officer Commanding (GOC) and Commander, Operation Safe Haven, Major-General, Ibrahim Salau Ali, made the confirmation on Friday when he paid a courtesy visit to the Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir, at the Government House, Bauchi. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The GOC said: “Your Excellency, the issue of cooperation is key in security matters; nobody can do it alone these days because security is a whole government approach. We really appreciate the support you have given us and we want to solicit for more support to enable us achieve our aims. “I also want to mention the need for speedy resolution of the land disputes between the brigade and the communities of Guru, Shadawanka, Kundan and others. Last year, I commissioned a block of classrooms at Kobi Primary School. It is part of our community service and relations. “I will like to mention that recently, we are having traces of bandits around Plateau, Taraba and Bauchi states. I want to intimate Your Excellency that we are going to be working with all the security agencies around the states to ensure that we bring peace to our people so that they can carry on with their legitimate activities for the development of the state and Nigeria in general. “I am delighted to have the privilege to be here today. I resumed as GOC on the 12th of July 2021, barely nine months ago. I have been unable to see you since then until now, on several occasions when I come to Bauchi, you were away due to one reason or another. I am grateful that I am able to meet with you today. “Last year, we held a competition here and you duly supported us to make it a huge success. You approved the use of the Hajj camp for us and the Deputy Governor was at the closing ceremony. We appreciate the support. Today again, during the closing ceremony of our programme, the SSG duly represented you. This is a great encouragement to us. “The Brigade Commander has told me of your constant support. We are grateful for that and hope it will continue. The COAS, too, sends his regards for the hospitality accorded him when he visited the state recently.” In his response, Governor Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir commended the Nigerian Army for working round the clock to keep Nigeria and Nigerians safe, urging it to do more. The governor stressed the need for quick resolution of the land problem between the Army and the host community, stressing that there must be cordial relationship between the two bodies. He said: “You know that the land was given several years ago during the colonial era. Now, development has caught up with the area. We cannot develop with the barracks here. We have intention of moving the barracks elsewhere, but we need your cooperation if that must be done”. Mohammed gave the assurance that his administration would continue to be proactive on security issues because it is the first primary function of the government.