Residents in communities across Oke-Ogun especially in Saki West, Saki East and Atisbo, have commended the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, for the commitment of his administration to the welfare of the people especially in providing easy access to basic healthcare in communities within Oke-Ogun through the upgrade of existing Primary Healthcare Centres and construction of new ones. The residents while lauding the governor during a recent on the spot assessment made by the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, to the health centres in Saki East, Saki West and Atisbo local government area of the state, said it is heartwarming that the governor kept his promises to the people. Speaking in Saki, a traditional ruler, High Chief Oyelowo Joseph stated that they can only express their appreciation for the laudable efforts of Governor Makinde in the zone’s health sector, adding that the tremendous development to their health centres has made life easy on the people as they no longer travel long distances to access medical care. Also speaking, Chief Raheem Borepo and Chief Salam Makanjuola, Chairman of Saki Parapo community union stated that it is the dawn of a new era for them in Saki because their health centres are experiencing unprecedented facelift and upgrade which makes them more positioned to cater fully to the needs of the community.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Ogundeji Samuel ipadeola, a community head in Tede expressed appreciation on behalf of the people for the expansion and upgrade of the PHC at Tede, adding that this has boosted healthcare delivery in the state and has made more people to patronise the health centre. According to him, “the extension of our maternity centre by the government gives us joy, all the changes made here are laudable and we don’t have to beg people again to visit the clinic when they are ill. We thank him for remembering us in Oke- Ogun, especially in Tede. The medical personnel also showed their elation at working in a better environment. At Ago Are PHC, a clinic that was formerly built with mud before the government built a new one, the matron represented by Mrs Ajibola Mojisola, state thanked the government for deeming it fit to give the community a modern structure that can fit in with modern realities. She added that the clinic was nothing to write home about and had zero patronage but things had changed as they now have a different story to tell in terms of working conditions and patronage. PHCs visited include Ago Are PHC, Oje Owode PHC, Oke Sebe maternity, Model PHC on Oke Ola, Oje Owode, Alaga PHC, Ajegunle PHC, Ogidigbo PHC, Iya PHC, Isale Effi PHC, Tede PHC and Tede Comprehensive Healthcare centre among others. The ongoing upgrade of PHCs across all zones in Oyo state is in fulfilment of the state government’s promise to upgrade 351 PHCs across the state to Category C level in a bid to upgrade one PHC in each ward to make health care delivery near the people. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Oke-Ogun residents appreciate Makinde for upgrade of PHCs Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Oke-Ogun residents appreciate Makinde for upgrade of PHCs