MUSLIMS have been advised to be good ambassadors of Islam by being agents of positive change in the society. The advice was given by speakers at the annual Ramadan lecture organised by politician and community leader, Mr Azeem Owe, in Itire-Ikate, Lagos. Speaking on ‘Islam and Politics’, the guest lecturer at the event, Imam Abdul-Ganee Suleiman, described politics as an integral part of Islam, saying it was mandatory for all true believers to participate in the governance of their societies. He said: “The glorious Qur’an touches on every aspect of human life, including politics. It is a code of life that guides and teaches every Muslim how to live a good life. “Talk about politics, a true Muslim is expected to uphold justice and tolerance which are the ingredients required to promote public interest and peaceful society. “But unfortunately, these two ingredients are missing in our politicians. Many of them are intolerant and unjust in their handling of the affairs of the country, which is the reason we are having challenges of insecurity, economic problems, youth restiveness and banditry.  “A true Muslim, without doubt, will be a just political leader whose heart would be filled with fulfilling the needs of the people. A politician that fulfils the five pillars of Islam and practises the teachings of the Prophet would definitely not rig election or sponsor thugs to disrupt the process because he would know that things of this world are temporary and you will give account of how you acquired everything you had, even if it is a dime. “Therefore, we cannot separate Islam from politics because Islam preaches equity, justice and good governance.  Islam ensures equality among citizens and between the leader and the led.” In the same vein, the organiser of the event, Mr Owe, said the guide to a healthy political transition and a peaceful society lied in upholding the teachings of Islam. According to him, the Holy Qur’an has all the answers to Nigeria’s challenges but the political class is heedless. He said: “It is disturbing that we witness an increasing rate of violence and thuggery when the country is approaching election year. “With the knowledge of this and as we are in the month of Ramadan, we feel that holding this lecture with the theme ‘Islam and Politics’ will go a long way in opening the minds of our political leaders to the divine truth. “We have to let them know that Islam forbids hypocrisy and manipulation of election results. It forbids rigging of election to favour an unpopular candidate. “The country is approaching election year and as Muslims, it is compulsory for us to know our duties and roles before, during and after the election.” “We cannot fold our arms and expect miracle to happen. If we feel unconcerned about the political process, then we have no right to complain about the kind of leadership that such election brings forth. “Islam teaches fairness in politics and the fear of Almighty Allah in whatever we do.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Muslims should be agents  Muslims should be agents Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Muslims should be agents  Muslims should be agents