Terrorists have released new photos of the abducted train passengers on Monday. The three sets of photos were believed to have been released on Monday night according to the Nigerian Tribune investigation. The Chairman of the Abducted passengers Forum had earlier hinted in a news conference in Kaduna last week that the federal government are currently talking with the terrorists. However, from feelers obtained by the Tribune Online, the talks have collapsed owing to irreconcilable differences. Recall, in the first video released by the terrorists of the train attack, they have hinted that they were not after money but an exchange of the abducted passengers with their commanders which they alleged are under the custody of the Federal Government. Thus, it was gathered that the released photos was part of their strategy to draw sympathy from the public against the government. Also a security expert, Abubakar Ahmed said, “They want to tell the world that the abducted passengers are alive and in good condition.”  However, when Tribune Online asked a family member of the abducted passenger how he feels about the picture trending on social media, the source who wouldn’t like his name in print maintained that the family members are disturbed not happy. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said no one in the family finds pleasure in eating anymore, saying, “we just want to see him free. That’s our major concern. “We have been praying for him and others day and night, he stressed. Another family member of one of the abducted passengers who gave his name as Yunusa Mohammed remarked that a relation was among those still with the terrorists. “We are really disturbed when we saw her picture. How can we be happy? we just want her to be released with others unhurt.” Findings revealed that some of the elderly among the abducted passengers have complained about their deteriorating health conditions. A disturbed relation who pleaded for anonymity said that his uncle was among the abducted passengers and his health is worsening. “He spoke when the second video was released on the need to hasten their release in view of the fact that his health is deteriorating. He was among the elders in one of the pictures,” he concluded. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Terrorists release new photos of abducted Kaduna-Abuja train passengers