President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated music legend, Evangelist, Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi on the occasion of his 80th birthday today. The president in his tribute described the music legend as an exceptional personality, who used his art and skills to fly Nigeria’s flag round the world, bringing joy and merriment to people with his sonorous voice, and didactic songs, for over six decades. In a release signed by the Special Adviser to the President (Media and Publicity), Femi Adesina, stating that though Obey as he is fondly called is from Abeokuta, Ogun State, Nigeria, Obey’s music has been a blessing not only to the entire South-West, but he has garnered tremendous recognition and adulation nationally and internationally. “He has used his music to champion government programmes such as: Change of lane in 1972 (Keep Right); Change to the Naira (Naira/Kobo); Operation Feed the Nation, and many others,” he added. Buhari noted that the musician/preacher has sang on virtually every area of human endeavour and activity with countless gold dics and many platinum dics to his credit, leading to being honoured with the prestigious award of Member of the Federal Republic (MFR) in 2001. President Buhari lauds the fact that on July 7, 2014, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Agolwoye, Ogun State conferred on Chief Commander Obey the status of Professor of Music, as a visiting lecturer in the Department of English and Performing Arts of the University. In the same vein, the Executive Director of the Obefemi Awolowo Foundation and the chairman of the African Newspapers Nigeria (ANN) Plc, Ambassador (Dr) Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosumu, also felicitated the music icon. In her birthday tribute, Awolowo Dosumu, described Obey as a man of God and a complete gentleman who as dignified himself with evergreen lyrical music. Speaking on her relationship with the music icon, Awolowo Dosumu said, “As I imagine is the case for many, I first came to know him in the late 60s through his unique brand of music – melodious, yet filled with lyrical wisdom. As we emerged from the era of ‘high-life’, he very quickly became the musician of choice for many in my generation. “Even Papa Obafemi Awolowo, SAN, GCFR, who was not known for frivolity, was a loyal fan of Ebenezer Obey’s music. Papa invited him to play at major family celebrations, including my wedding and the ceremony he and Mama hosted after the birth of my daughter, at whose wedding he played many years later! “After Papa’s demise, Mama kept up this family tradition. He played at her 99th birthday and again, exactly one year later, at her funeral which was held on the day she would have celebrated her centenary. Since Mama left us, we have also continued the tradition. Indeed, no celebration is considered complete within the Awolowo family without the music of Chief Ebenezer Obey! “No matter how short the notice is, he always graciously accepts our invitation. I discovered that he actually keeps track of our milestone events and often lets us know that he has saved the date (my 70th birthday being the most recent example)!,” she added. “On behalf of myself and the entire Awolowo family, I rejoice with our dear Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi as he celebrates his 80th birthday. It is my prayer that we, and indeed the entire world, will continue to enjoy his music, LIVE, for very many years to come. Have a wonderful celebration! You deserve it!,” she said. R also gathered that vice-president Yemi Osinbajo, Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun will lead other top dignitaries to celebrate the legendary musician today, at the Decross Gospel Mission, headquarters, Iyanapaja, Agege, Lagos. 