Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday felicitated Lagosians, especially Christians in the state on the commemoration of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, calling on them to emulate his virtues of humility, perseverance and compassion, even as the governor also urged them to continue to live in peace and harmony with believers in other faiths. Governor Sanwo-Olu made the call in his Easter message issued by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr Gboyega Akosile, noting that good neighbourliness, selflessness and patience were among the several lessons taught and exemplified by Jesus Christ. The governor implored Nigerians, especially Christians to use the occasion to seek the face of God for continuous peace in Lagos State and end insurgency and other insecurity challenges in the country. “I wish all Lagosians and Christians across the country and other parts of the world, Happy Easter, as we celebrate God’s greatest sacrifice to mankind. Events leading to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ were epochal in the annals of Christianity and humanity. They remind us of his virtues of sacrifice, love, harmony and peaceful coexistence among humanity.  “As Christians, this period offers us an opportunity to rethink our relationships as individuals, as communities and as a nation. The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ typify love, affection and tolerance. It also marked the end of evil and the beginning of good deeds. I want to urge us to emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ by positively impacting the lives of friends, colleagues, associates, neighbours and family members. “As we celebrate this year’s Easter, I want to urge Christian faithful in the state to continue to pray for continuous peace in our dear state, Lagos and end to insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and other insecurity challenges in Nigeria,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… Sanwo-Olu celebrates easter Sanwo-Olu celebrates easter ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… Sanwo-Olu celebrates easter Sanwo-Olu celebrates easter ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…