The Minister of Transportation,  Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi true to widely held expectations and in response to calls from many quarters has declared his readiness to vie for the  President of Nigeria in the coming 2023 general elections. Making the declaration Saturday at the thanksgiving ceremony organised by the Rivers State All Progressives Congress APC at the Adokie Amasieamaka stadium Amaechi said she was compelled to join the fray by the urgency of the present challenges to place his experience and proven capacity at the service of the nation at the highest level. Speaking at the thanksgiving service, which was attended by over 40,000 APC members and supporters, was officiated by about 19 ministers of the gospel, the former Governor of Rivers State confirmed his long term ambition to be the President of Nigeria. The Minister said: “Fellow Nigerians, I stand before you today to declare my intention and submit my application to serve as your next President. “I did not come to this decision just now. I have served as Minister for seven years. “I have served as state governor for eight years and I have served as Speaker of the House of Assembly for eight years. My years of experience has equipped me well. “I am compelled by the urgency of our present challenges to place my experience and proven capacity at the service of the nation at the highest level. He went on to  declare his credentials; “Those who know me can testify that I have always been a straight talker. This trait has not only made me popular but I speak the truth with conviction. “So, allow me to speak the truth here today. We are facing very serious challenges as a country. “These are problems of insecurity, challenges of greater accountability in governance, youth unemployment and scourge of spiral poverty. These problems are however not the exclusive preserve of Nigerians. “We live in a troubled world; the reality we use to know has altered in nearly every nation.” Amaechi, who said he will go round the country with the message of hope, promised to be President for all Nigerians if elected into office. He said: “I will go round Nigeria with one message; “Hope is around the corner”. I shall be the President of every Nigerian. “I will continue to work for you; I will never forget the fact that I am here to serve you. I will be your servant. Today, I stand as an aspirant to the position of the office of the President. “Because of that same passion for people, that same drive for result, more than ever before, no matter the hurdles that may come my way, I will remain steadfast because the stakes are too high, we cannot afford to fail us all. “I pledge my heart, my mind and soul to the task of building a Nigeria in which every child can go to school, every young person can find work or support to start a business.” Amaechi stated that after more than two decades in the public arena, he had planned to go on holiday and spend more time with my family before chatting a new course outside politics but at 56 years old and a member of the generation after independence who have seen the good, the bad and the ugly of Nigeria. “We are facing some very serious challenges as a country. These are problems of insecurity, greater accountability in governance, youth unemployment and scourge of spiral poverty. We live in a troubled world. The reality we used to know has altered everything and it has brought about food scarcity is some places. Poverty has become a challenge all over the world especially in the developing world.” He observed that the nation’s current challenges did not begin today and they will not be solved overnight but they are not beyond the capacity of our people to solve. Fortunately, that process has already started. He said the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has planted many fruitful trees in Nigeria future. “We have invested billions in infrastructure, human capital development and made reforms that will pay off overtime interms of soci-economic growth and stability”. Amaechi went on; “On reflection, the notion of running for president is far beyond the imagination of the young lad running around the streets of Diobu and our small compound in Ubima, not to talk of the young indigent student leader mobilising peers at the University of Port Harcourt. “My inspiration is not about fulfilling any personal ambition, I am contesting for the office because I believe that it is my moral duty to give what I can in the service of my country, to sustain an intensified efforts and solving our national problems. Our democracy must ensure the emergence of a leadership that is equipped with experience in governance to ensure stability and continuity. “To sustain our democracy and preserve our unity, we need a steady hand and a passion for success in a nation that remains united, to pursue prosperity for all Nigerians. “It is the combination of experience patriotic passion that I have been to this level. I have been in the corridor of Nigeria for 23 years. I have served at every level; local, state and federal. I have served both as a political appointee and elected official. “We have invested heavily in projects and initiative that will secure a brighter better future for Nigeria. I am proud to have been part of this success story. “The next leg of my political journey will be tough but I am excited to go out and engage with Nigerians from every works of life. I am ready to go round the country and we have one massage ‘Hope is around the corner.”