The BOOT party and one Adesoji Adeleke have dragged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Osun Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Ademola Adeleke before a Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo over the candidature of Ademola as the party flagbearer for the July 16th governorship election in the state. In the suit filed by their counsel, Muhydeen Adeoye, the complainants prayed the court to declare Ademola’s candidature for the election as invalid. They further asked, “the court to determine if PDP’s nomination of Senator Ademola Adeleke as its governorship candidate on March 15, 2022, was valid, having made outside 180 days stipulated by the law.” Also, the plaintiffs asked the court to declare that PDP did not comply with the decisions of Justice Aderibigbe regarding the delegates list while conducting its governorship primaries. The suit also wanted the court to declare Adeleke’s nomination by PDP as its governorship candidate as invalid following non-compliance with extant INEC guidelines and law. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE They also want the court to determine if INEC and PDP, who were parties in suit no: HIF/36/2021 and suit no: HIJ/6/2022 were bound to obey subsisting decisions of Justice A. Aderibigbe of an Osun State High Court delivered on November 22, 2021 and March 3rd, 2022 regarding the authentic ward delegates permitted for a vote at PDP governorship primary. Their originating summon further requested the court to determine if PDP in the conduct of its March 8 primary election has complied with the tenure of the subsisting decisions of Justice Aderibigbe of an Osun State High Court. Should the questions be resolved in negative, the plaintiffs also told the court to determine if the outcome of the PDP governorship primary could be regarded as valid. The court, however, adjourned the hearing on the case till May 3, 2022 and granted the plaintiffs the leave to serve the defendants through substituted means in its order dated April 1, 2022. Meanwhile, Ademola Adeleke’s camp expressed its readiness to appear for the matter through its legal team. Spokesperson of Adeleke Campaign Organisation, Mallam Olawale Rasheed who made this known in an interview, the party complied with the dictates of the Electoral Act and the Constitution.