Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Garba Shehu has said he was in support of the probe of the finances of the All Progressives Congress by its new Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Garba Shehu declaration was on the heels of alleged missapropriation of the sum of N800m by the Media Subcommittee of the Convention Planning Committee of the APC. Shehu who incidentally served as Secretary of the Subcommittee of Media subcommittee of the Committee said only N100 was provided for his team which has Nasarawa state governor, Abdullahi Sule, and Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed. While dismissing the story as unfounded, the media aide to President Buhari said his Committee was above board as it was able to rise above scandal.
The statement read in part. “The report in the Daily Telegraph that the Media Subcommittee of the Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC, led the Abdullahi Sule, the Governor of Nassarawa State, co-chaired by Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Information and Culture spent a whopping amount of N800 million is strange news, totally untrue. “If that huge amount of money was spent on media work at the convention, we make bold to say that we were, and still are unaware of the what, who, when and how it was expended.  “The Subcommittee, which I served as Secretary got the total sum of N100 Million only. We thank the Governor for giving us venue, tea and coffee. We submitted a budget of about N360 Million. When the Finance Subcommittee told us that even the N100m paid us was in excess of our budgetary allocation, we scrambled backwards, canceling commitments duly entered into for billboards, production of documentaries, lamp pole ads and so many other things. Some we could cancel, others were irreversible. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “On the assurances given by our leaders, we negotiated a token of commitment to TV networks for Live Coverage, with everyone agreeing that was a must-do for the convention. At the very end, we could only pay half of that amount to each of the stations, hoping that the leadership of the party will take responsibility for the payment of the balances due as a matter of honor. The expenses sheet accounting for the N100 Million and the detailed report of the work by the Subcommittee has since been sent to the Party and shared with the committee leaders and its membership. “In the course of doing this work, all payments to third parties were done by a committee member in the presence of at least two other members. This was in a bid to rise above scandal. In view of the astonishing revelation of the money allegedly spent by our committee in this report, we strongly suspect that our account, rendered to the party, detailing out every of our expenses may have been the trigger for the ongoing investigation and the reported suspensions. “Whatever be the case, we are absolutely in support in the ongoing probe into the convention finances. “To convince anyone that the party is ready to continue with the cleansing of the nation being carried out by the Muhammadu Buhari administration, it must first cleanse it own house. On this, we stand with Governor Abdullahi Adamu, the new Chairman as he carries out this exercise. Nothing should be hidden under the carpet.”