A wave of resignations has hit Rivers State as at least five serving cabinet members have handed in their resignations to clear the way for them to join the race to replace Nyesom Wike as governor of the state at the 2023 general elections. These resignations are in the wake of the hitherto silence and lethargy among the political class who have been waiting for Wike to anoint a successor. The governor was expected to have announced his successor at two political stakeholders meetings held in the state in the past three weeks but without any clear word or indication from the governor to that effect, many politicians interested in the Brick House have begun moves to actualise their ambitions. Several of them have already purchased forms for the governorship position while many others are concluding plans and arrangements to support their interests including resigning their current positions, especially for those of them still in active service in the state.  Nigerian Tribune gathered that as at Wednesday, at least five active top senior civil servants and politicians serving the state government have turned in their resignations. Among those said to have resigned include the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Tammy Danagogo; the Commissioner for Finance, Isaac Kamalu; Commissioner for Sports, Hon. Boma Iyayi; Special Adviser to Governor Wike on Special Projects, George Kelly and the Accountant General of the State, Asimilaye Fubara. Besides the Commissioner for Finance, Isaac Kamalu, who is from Eleme, an upland part of Rivers State the four others are from the riverrine areas from where there is a serious pressure to be allowed to produce the next governor of the state. However, the Account General, Asimilaye Fubara, whom some close sources said might likely get the nod of the governor for the position is from Opopo area, which though riverine is not of the Kalabari stock. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Additionally, all of the five aspirants mentioned above are members of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) even though they are not all of the candidates in the party who have indicated interest to be the next number one citizens in the state. Other candidates from the PDP who had made known their interest in the governorship of Rivers State with the purchase of expression of interest forms include Felix Obuah – Sole Administrator, Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RUWAMA); Rt Hon. Austin Opera – former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives; Engr. Tele Ikuru – former Deputy Governor of the state and Sen. George Sekibo – representing Rivers East Senatorial District. Others are Sen. Olaka Worgu, Senator who represented Rivers South-East District, Sen. Lee Meaba, Dawari George, a member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Abiye Sekibo, a former Minister of Transport and Chief David Briggs a former Commissioner for Water Resources. A source inside the Brick House confirmed to our correspondent on Thursday that the five serving aspirants had handed in their resignations but could not confirm if they had handed over their offices and when they are billed to do so.