The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, on Wednesday, said that the Nigeria Army executes most of its projects through direct labour. He further said that the institution also takes into cognisance, a high standard of professionalism and competency to avoid possible building collapse across barracks. General Yahaya stated this at the first projects planning and management workshop organized by the Nigeria Army Special Projects Abuja, held at the Nigeria Army School of Military Engineering (NASME), Makurdi. Represented by Chief of Logistics, Army Headquarters Abuja, Maj. Gen. Omotomilola Akintade who spoke on the theme, “Capacity Development for Efficient Management in the Nigeria Army”, said the theme was not only apt but germane said that army projects officers with the responsibilities of executing or supervising contracted projects in and around the army barracks must be competent and proficient for timely delivery of high-quality projects. According to him, “In a sustained effort to shore up troops’ morale and well-being through the provision of conducive working and living conditions for personnel of the Nigerian Army (NA), I have embarked upon construction and rehabilitation of a number of projects across Nigeria Army formations which range from an accommodation office complex, training schools and other support facilities in the barracks. “So far, 18 Regimental Sergeant Majors (RSM) houses have been commissioned and I have also commenced construction of a new barrack in Abuja while the second phase of RSM houses comprising 24 houses is at various advanced stages.  The COAS who was General Yahaya was the Special Guest of Honour at the first projects planning and management workshop, organized by the Nigeria Army Special Projects Abuja, held at the Nigeria Army School of Military Engineering (NASME), Makurdi. General Yahaya also seized the occasion to inaugurate a digital signpost at the NASME entrance gate and launched tree planting projects across barracks, adding that the completion of some projects evidently depicts the resolve of the NA to improve the wellbeing of its personnel. Speaking earlier, the Coordinator Nigeria Army Special Projects, Maj. Gen Philip Emorosele explained that the workshop was organized and geared towards improving capacity for efficient project management and refreshing officers on global trends in construction management to enhance timely delivery of quality projects, and enhance the honour, reputation and value of the profession. The Commander of Corp Engineer (CCE), Maj. Gen Kamilu Kadiri said that the workshop would further enlighten officers on the functionality, comfort, safety and efficiency of the built environment, basic skills and understanding of the metering system. He thanked the Chief of Army Staff for approving the workshop to be held twice a year and urged participants to be committed to the program so as to garner more understanding for implementation and formulation project planning and execution. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…COAS tasks Nigeria Army  COAS tasks Nigeria Army Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…COAS tasks Nigeria Army  COAS tasks Nigeria Army