EKITI State governor and chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Dr Kayode Fayemi, may declare his intention to run for presidency in 2003 after the fasting period. Speaking with newsmen in Gombe State on Wednesday, after he held a closed-door meeting with Governor Inuwa Yahaya, he said “this is not a season for political declaration, as it is a spiritual season for both Christian lent and Muslim Ramadan.” When asked about his rumoured presidential ambition, he said, “whether I am going to run for the presidency or not is a matter of conjecture. “What I will appeal to you journalists is to wait till after this spiritual season. It will be disrespectful of all our faiths, Muslims and Christians, to start playing those politics.  “I am a Catholic and lent is very important to us, just as Ramadan is important to my brother (Governor Yahaya). Let this period end first.” Speaking on insecurity ravaging the country, Governor Fayemi said President Muhammadu Buhari is not finding it easy governing the country in the midst of the present challenges. “These are very difficult times for our country and our president is doing his best to calm things down. “The economy is not experiencing the best of times, our security situation continues to be challenging and we are in a period of transition,” he said. The governor, however, said members of the governors’ forum will continue to look for the best way in building on the gains of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government, despite the daunting economic and security challenges facing the country. He said “for us as governors, we always must find bases together to move with the president of the country in order to strengthen the federation and build a better country that will serve the interest of our people. “As far as the economy is concerned, our primary role as members of the National Economic Council (NEC) and field commanders for the president of Nigeria is to support him to get over these challenges, which are both internal and external.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Buhari not finding it  Buhari not finding it Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Buhari not finding it  Buhari not finding it