As exclusively reported by Tribune Online, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will sell its Nomination form to presidential aspirants for the sum of N100m. It was one of the decisions taken by the National Working Committee of the party, which was ratified by its National Executive Committee (NEC) at its meeting held on Wednesday at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. National Publicity Secretary of the party, (NPS), Felix Morka, disclosed this to newsmen at the end of the meeting.
Checks revealed that only the sum of N5m proposed by the APC NWC for the Nomination fee for the State Assembly form was reduced to N2m. Aspirants for governorship and senate seats will pay N50m and N20m as nomination fees, respectively as proposed by the Senator Abdullahi Adamu Committee, while House of Representatives aspirants will pay N10m. Morka also disclosed that the APC NEC has transferred its statutory powers to the NWC for 90 days. The motion for ceding of NEC powers to NWC was moved by President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, and seconded by Speaker, House of Representatives, Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila. The NEC equally approved May 30-31st for the conduct of the presidential convention while governorship aspirants will emerge on May 18. The sale of forms will commence on Saturday, April 23 to be concluded on May 6, 2022. The APC NEC also approved the conduct of state and national delegates for the presidential convention to hold between 7th to May 9, 2022.  Earlier in his opening remarks, the national chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu identified the power tussle between serving governors, former governors and other chieftains of the party for control of party structures as the cause of crises rocking state chapters. “The problem today is a battle between serving state governors and their predecessors. It is a battle of ego. We can’t let this continue because it constitutes a threat to the party. “Where two elephants fight, it is the grass that would suffer, and where serving governors and former governors fight, it is the party that would suffer.” While calling for caution, Senator Adamu, who was a two-term Nasarawa State Governor on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) recalled that it was a power tussle between tendencies in the erstwhile ruling party that led to its electoral misfortune in the 2015 general elections. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan in his remarks said federal lawmakers in both chambers of parliament have shown loyalty to the party national leadership and the Executive arm of government. He requested that their loyalty should be rewarded accordingly by conceding the party ticket to them in their respective constituents. He said: ” Your Excellencies, the 9th members of the National Assembly of APC have been persistent. We have shown complete loyalty to our party. We remained committed to the end by the grace of God. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We believe together we have done so much. We know that the opposition will always like to take us for granted. “Your Excellencies, the President set up the National Working Committee members especially the first three, the national chairman, the deputy national chairman, North, and the national secretary are our escorts to our party. “Sir, Senator Abdullahi Adamu has just taken over. I can see his move in protecting and unifying our party, and I will urge all of us to continue to project and protect the place of our administration. “I want to assure everyone here, on behalf of members of the National Assembly, we will continue to support our party. We expect our party to look at our members, who have done so much in terms of performance and working cooperatively and assiduously with the executive arm of government and all leaders in government for the realization of our mandate for our manifestoes, policies and programs of our government, I think the national secretary and members of NASS of APC deserved special treatment as the Honourable Speaker said. “I believe that it is the experience that members of the National Assembly have gathered that made them perform well. So, I like to say they deserve another term. ” APC NEC transfers its powers to NWC Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa APC NEC transfers its powers to NWC