Senator representing Kano North, Barau Jibrin has declared his intention to contest the 2023 gubernatorial election at the inauguration of the campaign committee to achieve his political ambition. However, during the inauguration, former Kano State Deputy Governor, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar was appointed as the Campaign Director and Chairman of the central committee alongside other 10 members. A 17-man committee was unveiled across the 3 senatorial districts in the state, as well a 27-man committee to oversee the campaign across the 44 Local Government Areas. Members of the committee include women as well as representation from people with special needs.  While introducing Prof. Hafiz Abubakar as Campaign Director and in his acceptance speech, chairman of the campaign’s central committee, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar, said that the committee will soon inaugurate other subcommittees that include, social media, Student associations and a committee for the business community. “We will soon unveil a reach out strategy for the Barau I Jibrin’s campaign that will involve going to the grassroots, business communities, religious leaders and associations.” “You all are free to start soliciting for support in respect of the candidacy of Senator Barau I Jibrin.” On his part, the Governorship aspirant and Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriation, Barau Jibrin, thanked members of the committee for their sacrifices, just as he charged them to work closely with the campaign director in order to succeed in the Party’s primaries. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…