A trial into the alleged child molestation case against an embattled Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James alias Baba Ijesha, has entered into its final stages today when the defence closed its case. Baba Ijesha was arraigned before the Special Offences Court in Ikeja, Lagos on June 24, last year, over allegations of sexual assault of a minor. He however denied the six counts charges leveled against him which borders on the indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault by penetration and sexual assault by penetration. The offences, according to the police, contravene sections 135, 259, 262, 263 and 262 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Base on his plea of not guilty, the Department of Public of Prosecution, DPP commenced trial to proof the allegations against him. The prosecution thereafter closed its case after calling six witnesses to testify against the defendant. Subsequently, Baba Ijesha opens the defence and closed his case today after calling four witnesses. After the fourth witness gave his evidence, Baba Ijesha’s counsel, Mr Dada Awosika (SAN), told Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo “that concludes the evidence for the defence in this case”. MrAwosika appealed to the court for a date of adoption of the final written address. The DPP Counsel, Mr Yusuf Sule, did not oppose the application while thanking the court for expeditiously hearing the matter. Justice Taiwo thereafter adjourned the case till June 6 for the adoption of a final written address. Earlier at the commencement of today’s trial, the last defence witness, Mr Olukayode Ogunbanjo, alias Pastor Jerosi, while being led in evidence by co-defence counsel, Kayode Olabiran, told the court that he had worked with Baba Ijesha for over 15 years in the entertainment industry. Mr Ogunbanjo revealed that Baba Ijesha got in contact with Princess during one of the shows he anchored called “Orisun” and subsequently they become lovers. “We were like five that used to do the show together. On that date, while the show was going on, Princess called on the hotline that she wanted to join our programme. Under cross-examination by the Lagos State prosecution counsel, Mr Yusuf Sule, the witness, however, said he did not know what transpired inside Princesses house. “All I know is what I have said. I was not inside the house. I do not have any knowledge of what happened in the house,” he said.  How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team