Men of the Nigeria Police in Cross River have arrested a suspected crime kingpin, Godswill Emmanuel, a.k.a Emperor and two members of his gang. Commissioner of Police in Cross River, Mr Aminu Alhassan, confirmed the arrest on Monday in Calabar. The gang members were said to have been responsible for the shooting of Gov. Ben Ayade’s Security Adviser, Mr Ani Esin, in 2018. They were arrested at a hotel in Akampka Local Government Area of Cross River. The Cross River government and the police declared `Emperor’ wanted in 2018 after he attacked and shot the governor’s security adviser in Calabar. CP Alhassan said Emmanuel was arrested alongside Denis Onyekachi and Edet Okon and that his men were battle-ready for criminals in the state.  “We are not making noise about our achievements, but this is a warning to all those involved in crime in the state; we will continue to smoke them out. “We have never relented in our quest to sanitise every part of the state. “It is either you stay away from crime while in Cross River or you leave because this place will be too hot for you to operate. “Criminals must leave the state now or face the consequences as well as the full wrath of the law,’’ Alhassan warned. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Police arrest gang responsible for shooting Governor Ayade’s SA