Dr. Adekunle Akindele, Chairman, Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, Osun State Chapter has pledged to reunite all aggrieved members of the party as he assumed duty at the state secretariat of the party, Osogbo on Friday. The chairman who made the pledge while speaking with newsmen, shortly after inauguration promised to steer the ship of the state party chapter in line with dictates of the constitution of the party with six other eminent members of the committee saddled with the assignment. According to him, “the door of this Committee is open to all for productive advice going forward, as no one is made to be a jack of wisdom. It is also time for everyone who is still displeased with past activities of the party to sheath their swords and join hands with the party in a bid to forge a formidable front in the interest of our people.” “Myself and members of the team seated with me here have just taken oath of office and it is our collective resolve that there’s no time to waste.”  “We are all alive to the fact that our party is involved in a major election in Osun State in just about three months from now. We are aware we cannot afford to underestimate the magnitude of trust being invested in our party by the highly expectant people of Osun State.” “Without much ado, our task is very simple and well laid out. We are to work assiduously with critical stakeholders, esteemed members of our party and the suffering masses of Osun to bring home the much awaited victory of their own government.” “We will consolidate on the goodwill already harvested for the party by the Hon Sunday Bisi led team whose tenure had just lapsed. The party is indeed blessed to have the team around at a time we required tested hands with so much trust by all segments of the populace. May God Almighty continues to bless them.” “This Committee like I said, will be focused in line with the dictates of our assignment. Already, a high powered Stakeholders meeting has been called for Monday 18th of April, while screening of Aspirants for the three houses of assembly, house of representatives and the senate will follow up on Tuesday, 16th through Wednesday 17th of April.” “Aspirants into various political offices as applicable on the banner of our great party are enjoined to prepare themselves accordingly as these activities are in conformity with tasks ahead of us as a party and in strict compliance with the letters of the new Electoral Act.” “I want to assure leaders of our party that we will work to conquer together. We will work as advocates of peace and unity for the good of all.” “We will work to usher in a government of the people through our party Flagbearer, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke.” “Within my brief stint in the State, I can attest to the overwhelming acceptability of our candidate among the populace and so as a party, we will work with him to actualize the dream of a new dawn by the people.” “While I urge the good people of Osun State to remain unwavering in their faith in the PDP, I also plead with members of our party to shun such acts capable of depleting the faith and enthusiasm of the people towards our party.” “It is time to come together and redouble our efforts to lead army of our people to victory,” it submitted. It will be recalled that the National Working Committee of the party led by Dr Iyochia Ayu last week appointed seven eminent members of the party to preside over the party affairs in the state according to the dictates of the constitution of the party. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun PDP caretaker committee  Osun PDP caretaker committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun PDP caretaker committee  Osun PDP caretaker committee