Bolanle Austen-Peters, the producer of multiple award-winning movie ‘93 Days’ and director of the blockbuster high-grossing film ‘The Bling Lagosians’ is happy to announce the unveiling of her new film, ‘Man of God’, as it is set to be released on Netflix on the 16th of April, 2022. The movie which premiered last Saturday at the Terra Kulture Arena, was followed by an after-party with the cast, friends, family and celebrity guests in attendance, all adorned in outfits in line with the “Heavenly Glam” dress code. ‘Man of God’ was directed by Bolanle Austen-Peters under BAP Productions which is a foremost Nigerian theatre and film production company and produced by Bolanle Austen-Peters, James Amuta and Joseph Umoibom. The movie features Nollywood stars, including Akah Nnani, Osas Ighodaro, Prince Nelson Enwerem, Dorcas Shola Fapson, Atlanta Bridget Johnson, Patrick Doyle, Jude Chukwuka, Eucharia Anunobi, Shawn Faqua, Mawuli Gavor, Olumide Oworu and many others.  The film, ‘Man Of God’ tells the story of a man who forsakes his harsh religious upbringing to live his own life but his soul remains caught between the world and the faith he left behind. Sam’s soul is trapped in two triangles. On one hand, three women vying for his heart and on the other; the love of God, lust for money, and harboured deep resentment for his father wrestling for his soul. What will be the ultimate fate of Sam’s soul? Speaking in an interview with Arise TV on Friday about the reason for such a movie, the producer, Bolanle Austen-Peters said: “I’ve been studying our society, especially this area of religiosity. I am a woman of faith, but what I found out in Nigeria is that, increasingly, people have this crazy lust for worshiping men rather than God and a lot of men are turning this into commerce and using it for personal gains. This movie is to get the message across about what is it that we are doing wrong and what can we be doing wrong as a society” Based loosely on the prodigal son’s story, The Man Of God is dramatic, colourful vibrant and suspense-filled. While she has had two of her film on Netflix in the past, The Man of God is Bolanle Austen-Peters’ first Netflix Branded film.