Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has assured the Government of the United States of cooperation to ensure a peaceful, credible, free and fair governorship election in the state, saying these would help in guaranteeing development in the society. The Governor who spoke through his Deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, spoke on Tuesday when he received in audience officials of the U.S. Mission in Nigeria, adding, “the conduct of the credible election has become a global yardstick to measure development in any country.” The U.S. Mission team which comprised of officials from the American Embassy in Abuja and the Consulate was led by the Political/Economic Chief, Mr Brandon Hudspeth. The Governor who described Ekiti as one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria expressing confidence that the status would be maintained before, during and after the June 18 governorship election in the Land of Honour. Fayemi explained that every effort to ensure the conduct of a credible governorship poll is welcome including the desire of the U.S. Government to send its election observer team to Ekiti to contribute to the successful election exercise. According to him, “I know you are here because of our coming election, you want to monitor it. I want to assure you that we are going to give you 100 per cent cooperation. What you are coming to do is to help us and I can assure that ours is one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “You should not be afraid of anything, whatever you require from us, let us know and we are going to assist. I think the best answer to your request is that we are going to cooperate with you. “We appreciate what your government is doing in respect of our forthcoming election and I want to assure you that we are going to have a free and fair election because the credible election is of priority to every country and the international community.” Earlier in his remarks, the Political/Economic Chief, the U.S. Mission in Nigeria, Mr Hudspeth, who expressed the delight on the arrival of the team in the state said Ekiti Government has always enjoyed a “productive partnership” with the U.S. Government in the key sectors of governance. He said the U.S. is interested in the Ekiti governorship poll hence its desire to meet with the governorship candidates of the political parties, representatives of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and other stakeholders. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Conduct of credible poll, yardstick for development ― Fayemi