A scholar at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Profssor Muhammad Yahaya Mujahid, has urged Muslims to have total trust in Allah and rely on Him alone for the dispensation of their affairs. Fielding questions from newsmen after his presentation at the annual Ramadan lecture of the Nasrul-Lahi-l-Fatih Society (NASFAT), Kaduna branch, Mujahid said it was wrong for people to expect God do things for them without making any efforts. According to him, God loves those who strive and if Muslims imbibed this concept, the society would be the better for it. While presenting his paper on the topic ‘Tawakkul’, meaning trusting in God’s plan, the don said there was the need for Muslims to have a healthy relationship with Allah by following His injunctions at all times. He said tawakkul “goes in every direction of life” but noted that being laid-back never worked with the concept of God-consciousness. According to him, the concept of tawakkul is a process of action which is accompanied with desire and calmness of mind while having tranquility and assertive belief in Allah.  In a remark, the branch chairman of NASFAT, Alhaji Abdulganiyu Ajao, urged comfortable Muslims to strive to help underprivileged people in the society, especially in this holy month of Ramadan. Represented by his deputy, Alhaji Akeem Adeniji, Ajao appealed to all members to imbibe the spirit of the holy month by spending from what Allah had given to them to help one another. He urged them to be security conscious in view of the security situation in the country and called for fervent prayers for Allah to intervene in the problem. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Cleric counsels Muslims  Cleric counsels Muslims Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Cleric counsels Muslims  Cleric counsels Muslims