Vice-president Yemi Osibanjo has described the mother of Nigeria business mogul, Femi Otedola, Lady Christine Otedola as a woman of remarkable excellence, and a mother par excellence. Osinbajo stated this in his tribute was to Mama Otedola, at her 90th birthday celebration and at the St Peter’s Catholic Church, which the celebrant also dedicated in Epe, Lagos State, on Sunday. He stated that the remarkable life of service of lady Doja Otedola has been passed on to her children and grandchildren, noting that their reputation has been known for charitable causes. “Your remarkable life of service to others through philanthropy had most certainly been imbibed by your children and grandchildren whose reputation for charitable causes is also well known,” he said. He also prayed for strength, wisdom, and favour for her as she lives in all her days, adding “We pray for you that as your days, so shall your strength, wisdom, and favour be with God,” he added. In the same vein, the chairman on the occasion, Olusegun Osoba, congratulated Lady Doja, as she is fondly called, referring to her as the ‘First Lady of the Ogun State.’ ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, “I first came in contact with mama in 1965, 57years ago, when I did a course in Journalism at the University of Lagos where she was then a senior officer of the institution. “27 years after, I was elected the governor of Ogun State in 1992 alongside His Excellency, Sir Michael Otedola of Lagos State. An instant bond was developed between our families when my wife and mama became ‘First Lady’ of our respective states. “It is a great joy for me and Beere to see Mama attain the advanced age of 90, in joy, happiness, and good health. We thank God for His grace on her and for granting her the divine grace over the years.” Furthermore, he prayed for more success for the children during the lifetime of Lady Doja, noting that the children have achieved lofty heights in life. Also, the former president of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo described Lady Doja as a dependable mother, a woman of royalty and virtue. According to him, the life of Lady Christine Doja Otedola has been a source of blessing and tremendous inspiration to many generations of Nigeria. “Your life has been a source of blessing and tremendous inspiration to many generations of Nigeria who came in contact with you, especially the womenfolk. “As former First-Lady of Lagos State, you were a deeply committed patriot, who deployed enormous organisational skill and talents in support of your revered husband and former governor of Lagos State, Sir Michael Otedola of blessed memory, in the service of Lagos State in particular and the nation as a whole. “Your memory will remain evergreen in Lagos state and beyond for performing your duties with integrity and quiet efficiency as well as with generous disposition, magnanimity, and unstinted love for the people,” he added. He prayed that all her remaining years be spent on earth to be peaceful, joyful, and blessed with good health and contentment. Other dignitaries that graced the event include Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun; Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi; Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo- Olu, governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, and Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi, among others. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Lady Doja a woman of remarkable excellence ― Osinbajo