The Redeemer University, Ede, Osun State has inaugurated a Collection and Church History Research Room in honour of pastor Enoch Adeboye to mark his 80th birthday anniversary. The university has also organised a lecture, titled “Daddy G.O @80: Ministry, Vision and Role in Nation Building” held at the institution’s auditorium. Speaking at the occasion, the vice-chancellor of the university, Professor Anthony Akinlo described Pastor Adeboye as a nation builder whose impact on humanity has positively affected and changed the lives of dejected ones in the society. Professor Akinlo stressed that the man of God’s impact on lives across the globe is undeniable and appreciated him saying, “his heeding the call of God which has enormously impacted this generation and even generations to come, will undoubtedly partake of this impact.” He, however, appealed to Nigerian leaders to always have their followers at heart and lead by example for the betterment of the country. The university don who argued that righteousness exalts a nation, called for transparency and fear of God among Nigerians to promote mutual understanding in the country. According to him, Pastor Adeboye’s good deeds are an attestation to his role in building a godly nation and by extension a world where righteousness prevails. This he said has reflected in his relentless quest to take salvation to the doorsteps of an unquantified number of people, not only in his immediate environment but also across the globe.  ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also, in his inaugural speech at the event, the Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief, The Guardian Newspapers, Martins Oloja, described Pastor Adeboye as a focused leader of leaders with unblemished characteristics. He charged Nigerian youths to emulate the footstep of the man of God whom he referred to as a harbinger of humility in nation-building. Oloja, who commended Adeboye’s doggedness in upholding the truth and good messages dissemination, said he had laid a formidable foundation for sound leadership in the country and charged the younger ones to emulate his good deeds in the vineyard of God. According to him, “We must start to look deep within ourselves and arise to serve the needs of all people. The church must do away with all and any excuses and continue to prepare young men and women to lead the church throughout the millennium. It is never too late for the right foundation to be laid for sound leadership as Pastor Adeboye has done.” While appreciating those who honoured and celebrated him on the occasion, Pastor Adeboye, said, he felt so honoured to see that his  80th birthday attracted so much attention. He added that “As I said at the special Holy Ghost Service, I would have been 80 before now if I had known it would be such glorious. “I want to thank you all for all the surprises I received during my 80th celebration. They will forever remain memorable.”