The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has assured that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) would thoroughly investigate the cause of the Super Mushshak trainer aircraft crash that occurred on Tuesday at NAF Base, Kaduna. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen on Wednesday in Abuja by the Director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore, Edward Gabkwet. According to the statement, the CAS stated this when he visited Kaduna on Wednesday to commiserate with families, friends, and colleagues of the two pilots, Flight Lieutenant, Abubakar Muhammed Alkali and Flight Lieutenant, Elijah Haruna Karatu, who lost their lives in the crash. The statement added that Air Marshal Amao had constituted an Accident Investigation Board to determine the immediate and remote causes of the crash. It further explained that the CAS assured the officers, airmen and airwomen of 401 Flying Training School that all measures would be emplaced to avert similar occurrences in the future. According to it, CAS also reminded them of the need to remain steadfast and focused on their assigned roles and responsibilities in view of the onerous task before the NAF and other security forces to rid the Northwest and indeed the entire nation of all criminal elements.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. Chief of Air Staff promises full investigation of aircraft crash in Kaduna If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Chief of Air Staff promises full investigation of aircraft crash in Kaduna Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Chief of Air Staff promises full investigation of aircraft crash in Kaduna