The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has expressed concern over the non-collection of over 700,000 Permanent Voters Card (PVC) by the electorate in Oyo State. The State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Barrister Mutiu Adegoke who disclosed this during a courtesy call on the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Dr Lekan Balogun at his Alarere residence on Wednesday said non-collection of PVCs would automatically disenfranchise the electorate from exercising their voting right in 2023 general election. Adegoke, therefore, solicited the assistance of the monarch and relevant stakeholders in creating awareness of the need for the collection of PVCs among the residents of Oyo State. He said the number of the PVCs that are yet to be collected is enough to make somebody the state governor. Adegoke noted that the total number of votes scored by the two governorship candidates that scored the highest votes in the 2019 governorship election was not up to 700,000 votes. He said the purpose of the visit was to rejoice with Oba Balogun for ascending the throne of his forefathers and to solicit his assistance and cooperation as a respected voice in the community on the need for residents’ active participation in Electoral activities. Aside from the collection of PVC by the residents as earlier noted, the REC also wanted the monarch to help appeal to the various political parties to play the game according to the rules of engagement, saying, “INEC is doing everything possible to ensure hitch-free elections, but, we need the cooperation of the political parties by adhering to the rules. “When the law says no to vote-buying, it is not INEC that goes about with money at the polling centres, the political parties are the ones. We started preparations for the next elections immediately after the 2019 elections and the results of our preparations manifested in the successful conduct of elections in Edo, Kogi, Bayelsa and Anambra States. “In addition, we had other bye-elections that were successfully conducted and we are out again to ensure that the 2023 elections are without hiccups of any form, but, we can only achieve this with the support and cooperation of all the stakeholders which formed part of our visit here, Kabiyesi,” the REC stated. Barr. Agboke also told Oba Balogun that the Commission would on Monday, next week begin the fourth phase of the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) which he asked the monarch to help appeal to the residents to take the advantage of by participating in the exercise. Olubadan, who in his response assured the REC of the Palace’s support for the Commission’s programmes urged for enough sensitization of the general populace, asking the Commission to be conscious of the political awareness level of the residents. The monarch equally appealed to both the politicians and the electorate to work towards making Nigeria great by following the political rule, adding, “there’s nothing special about the so-called advanced societies that make them better than we blacks except that they do things rightly. “Let’s fully participate in all the pre-electoral activities and vote peacefully during elections. Let us collaborate with ourselves and since INEC is ready, we as citizens too should be ready. I appeal to all to let’s see to the greatness of this country by doing things rightly,” Olubadan added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…