The Bigi carbonated soft drink (CSD) brand of Rite Foods, has rewarded the winner of its ‘Watch & Win’ promo, Amarachi Chukwuma, with a brand-new car, as well as consolation prizes comprising laptop computers, Bigi products, blenders, printers, and several amazing prizes to other participants, after about twelve weeks of the reward scheme. The presentation of the grand prize was made on Monday, at the Silverbird Cinema, in Victoria Island, Lagos, with the elated Amarachi, who expressed her gratitude to the award-winning brand for connecting with its consumers through a platform that refreshes movie lovers with the taste of its 13 unique variants as they watch their favourite films. Chukwuma, 26, from Anambra State, received the key to the brand-new car with over one hundred packs of Bigi drinks, and other Bigi prizes. The ‘Watch & Win Promo’ was flagged off by the Bigi CSD in December 2021 to excite movie and cinema lovers in Silverbird Cinemas in Lagos and Abuja by offering them rewards for their viewing experiences. On the initiative, Rite Foods’ Brand Manager, Boluwatife Adedugbe, stated that through the promo, the Bigi brand created an exciting movie experience for its consumers in a way that has made movie viewing worthwhile, thus demonstrating that it places them at the core of its mission, offering value for money while having delightful moments. Receiving the car keys, Amarachi avowed “I was excited when l was told l won the prize, as most people were sceptical about it, and today, I am very happy that the Bigi brand lived up to its commitment. Also, I have heard that Bigi is doing a lot for consumers and intends to do a lot more consumer-centric activities.” She further stated that the Bigi brand has just elevated her status to a car owner and said she would forever be grateful to Bigi for bringing an unbelievable change, excitement, and refreshment to her and her family. Other consumers who received consolation prizes also applauded Bigi for the love shown to them, as the gift would help them wonderfully. The pacesetter in the beverage industry has in the past promoted entertainment through various initiatives such as the sponsorship of the ‘Prophetess’ movie premiere in Lagos and Ibadan, as well as the ‘Progressive Tailors Club,’ Max Life Music Concert amongst others. It will be recalled that in furtherance of its consumer connection, the premium brand sponsored the Nigerian Idol, an international musical star discovery platform for young Nigerian artists. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Bigi Drinks presents car, other prizes to winners of its promo [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Bigi Drinks presents car, other prizes to winners of its promo