The national leadership of Orisun Igbomina, a sociocultural organization of Igbomina indigenes, has canvassed the support of Igbomina people in the Illa local government area of Osun state for the re-election bid of incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola. The President General of Orisun Igbomina, Chief Gbenga Awoyale, during a courtesy visit to Illa Orangun chapter of the organization, said that it is imperative for the people of Igbomina descent to support Governor Oyetola, given his efforts in strengthening the Igbomina ancestral ties through connection of Illa to Arandun in Kwara state. “Despite the very limited resources at their disposals, some governors like Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara state, Gboyega Oyetola of Osun state and Inuwa of Gombe state, have turned around their states unprecedentedly, notwithstanding the huge financial liabilities inherited by them in their various states. Hence, they deserve one more term to complete the good works they have started. “We the Igbomina extraction in Kwara are particularly glad to see Governor Oyetola’s efforts, toiling day and night to ensure the connection of Illa to Arandun. It is more than infrastructural development to us as a people but an effort that will strengthen the Igbomina ancestral ties regardless of the artificial segmenting of statehood”, he added. “In Kwara state for instance, it is resolved that we are queuing behind Governor Abdulrazaq because of his landmark developmental strides across sectors. I know in Osun state, just like Kwara state, opposition parties have been forced into silence as all issues they have to campaign with have been addressed by these governors.” “Yes, people will play up all kind of sentiments, for example, zoning in Kwara state. But the question I have always asked is, what significant developmental turnaround did Kwara North or South witnessed when their sons were there as governors? Isn’t it more politically rational to support the one under whose reign, remarkable developments is visible in these areas?”  Awoyale also advised every patriotic citizen of Osun state to elect those leaders who will change the fortune of their states for good and affect the lives of the average citizens positively. “Look at various developmental projects in Osun. In Kwara too, look at Ilesha-Gwanara road, go to Edu, Patigi. You’ll see various water projects, roads and electrification projects that have now changed the socioeconomic status of these communities. “Governor Oyetola fits in perfectly for the sake of Osun’s future, just like Kwara’s Abdulrazaq and should thus be considered for re-election”.