For people in communities under Ibarapa Central and Ibarapa East local government areas of Oyo State, it is the dawn of a new era in terms of easy access to basic healthcare facilities with the ongoing upgrading of Primary Healthcare Cenres (PHC) across the state as each ward in the local governments now has a standard and functional PHC. While they are still jubilating however, they are asking for more to make the PHCs state-of-the-art. YEJIDE GBENGA-OGUNDARE reports. Quality and accessible public health services to all, which can only be effective through provision of Primary Health Care (PHC) in rural areas as well as provision of preventive and curative services has been the crux of the demands of many Nigerians over the years. Indeed, across communities in Nigeria, even distribution of services per head of population has been elusive to rural dwellers across states and many lack access to primary healthcare services. This has created a fault line in primary health care which has been identified as an integral part of the Nigerian social and economic development. Inadequate healthcare facilities, uneven geographical location of centres and poor road networks, making it difficult to access primary health care services, unfriendly behaviour of health care officers, lack of healthcare equipment and insufficient manpower, have contributed to putting healthcare services in Nigeria in a deplorable state, jeopardising the health status of Nigerians. However, some states have taken up the challenge to bridge the gap, especially in rural areas where community dwellers face different health issues than people who live in towns and cities. Oyo state is one of such states where the fortunes of primary healthcare service delivery is taken a different shape, giving residents hope that their health needs will now be adequately met. For residents of communities like Ideere, Malete, Isale Oba, Oke-Odo, Tobalogbo, Igbole, Igboora, Anko and Oke-Oba, as well as over 30 other communities in Ibarapa Central and Ibarapa East local government areas of Oyo State, the state government has soothed their aches and alleviated the suffering related to accessing basic care by providing standard and upgraded Primary Healthcare Centres (PHC) in every ward across the towns in Ibarapa zone of the state. Prior to the intervention of the Seyi Makinde led administration in Oyo State, many of the PHCs were decaying buildings without life according to people in the communities; many lacked the basic requirements for a average healthcare centre and lacked patronage because they could not cater for the health needs of the people. Nigerian Tribune took part in an on-the-spot unscheduled assessment of the revitalisation of PHCs in Oyo State to Ibarapa zone by the State Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun and it was jubilation galore among rural dwellers who consider the project as a dream come true as they expressed appreciation to the Governor Seyi Makinde led administration in the state. All the residents that spoke with Nigerian Tribune across the various communities in Ibarapa stated that PHCs in the communities were before now, mere buildings that were moribund and empty and they had to travel to long distances before they can access basic healthcare. Irrespective of age, status and religious affiliation, it was all tales of great transformation at the health centres; community representatives, farmers, market women, traditional rulers and pregnant women all confirmed that the health centres have been given a new lease of life and now enjoys patronage because the trust of the people has been revived. Adebayo Moruf, the community representative at Tobalogbo PHC told Nigerian Tribune that what they now have is beyond what they expected because they are in as isolated and agrarian community. According to him, “this place was not like this before, it was a very small building with extremely terrible roads. It was more of a building without staff or facilities and it was supposed to serve over 20 communities. Confirming Moruf’s statement, Ogunjobi Ibunkun and Afonja Tobi stated that they are now happy to patronize the health centres in their communities, not because they now wear new and beautiful looks but because they now get better care in the centres. Also, Christianah Salaudeen from Bareke area of Eruwa, stated that coming to the Anko,Eruwa health centre gives her joy now especially they way the handle their antenatal clinic and urged government to continue supporting the health centre to do more. The Bada of Igboora, Chief Ibrahim Olarinde, Oke-Odo community secretary, Shittu Fasasi Adisa, Chief Imam of Igboora, Muhammadu Jamiu, Igboora Community Secretary, Evangelist Sanya Akinlade and Deacon Festus Oluwasegun, the head of a resident association inn Ideere, all attested to the fact that so much had been done to improve the healthcare centre in their communities and as a result, patronage is now high. However, in the midst of jubilations, the people are asking for more. According to those that spoke with Nigerian Tribune, while the government has done so much, there are some things that need to be put in place for the standardisation of heath centres to be complete, adding that the provision of such will make their joy full. The Akogun of Ideere, Chief Ganiyu Oke told Nigerian Tribune that, “the difference is clear for everyone to see. What we had in the past was nothing to write home about; at that time, we do not patronize the PHC because we were afraid, people rather used self medication. But now, we are enjoying; the health centres are neat and beautiful while the workers are nice and professional. Our healthcare system is good now but the workers are not enough, it is difficult for them to do shifts. We appeal to the governor to give us more medical staff here so that the workers will not be overwhelmed.” Dr Adeniyi Yinusa Salau, the Medical officer for Health (MOH) in Ibarapa Central Local Government confirmed that there is always need for more hands, adding that “what we have now is a world of difference from what used to operate, we now enjoy great patronage as a result of improvement to the health centres and we are better equipped to serve the people. The issue of insufficient workers is a general issue that is not peculiar to Ibarapa or Oyo State. It is a national issue and we are doing our best to ensure this does not affect the health of the people.” For Chief Moyosola Ajibode, the Jagun of Pako and Chief Mariam Arowolo, the supervisor of Iberekodo, Igbole, what remains is certain infrastructure to put icing on the cake baked by the governor and consolidate on his efforts in revitalising their health centres. Chief Ajibode stated that “Governor Seyi Makinde has tried for us on the upgrade of our health centres in Ibarapa Central. What we see today is the result of hard work and the governor’s determination to ensure we have good health facilities but there is more to do for his good work to be crowned; there is need for our roads to be put in good condition, especially from here to Ideere and we need light to make the hospital standard.” For Chief Arowolo, “the only thing remaining to put a stamp on this is provision of water; the governor installed water for us but it is not running because we do not have light to power it. We need a generating set so the clinic can have water. ” The chairman of Ibarapa central local Government Area, Adeoye Adedoyin Oloyede couldn’t hide his enthusiasm at what is going on in the health sector in his local government while explaining that there is more to be done. He told Nigerian tribune that “I give kudos to Governor Seyi Makinde, he has done well in healthcare across all wards in my local government. “A PHC has been put in place and upgraded in every ward to make it easier for people to access medical services and our people now enjoy easy access to basic healthcare because it is now closer to everyone. The medical workers are professional and accommodating and the medical needs of people are being met though there is more to be done and the people desire more,” he added. Speaking on his assessment of PHCs in Ibarapa communities, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun stated that he is happy that the people are obviously enjoying the improvements made by the governor, adding that Governor Makinde will definitely look into all requests made and satisfy the yearning of people because he is determined to ensure people live a better life in the state. The development in the healthcare sector of Ibarapa is part of the upgrading project of the 351 PHCs across Oyo State by the Governor Makinde administration to boost the abilities of PHCs and make health accessible to all. And as the people enjoy easy access to healthcare, they are asking for more. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 