On March 10, 2021 a downpour accompanied by storm wrecked havoc in Obada which is generally called OdoOba in Ogo Oluwa Local Government Area of Oyo State in which more than two hundred houses and lock up shops had their roofs blown off while foodstuffs and other perishable items went with it. The Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS) crew on the invitation of Oba Sunday Oladapo Oyediran, the Onpetu of Ijeru and Olu Samuel Oladosu Oyekunle of Obada went round the town and its market to capture the extent of the disaster. Thereafter, a comprehensive report was forwarded to the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Abuja and Oyo State Emergency Management Agency(OYSEMA) for the provision of relief materials to the affected people. However, the people are still looking forward to receiving relief materials from these government agencies.  Obada was similarly affected in 2007 and no succor was given. It is on this premise that we beseech the agencies at state and federal levels to come to the aid of victims of March 10, 2021 rain storm at Obada (Odooba). Adelani Olawuyi, Oyo State ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector