A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, Ibrahim Taofeek Kayode on Tuesday said that the re-election of the state governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola is ordained by God. Kayode added that “the great work Oyetola’s administration has done in the length and breadth of the state would also work in his favour for his second term bid.” Speaking while declaring his intention to contest to represent Osogbo federal constituency in the House of Representatives, he described the achievements of the governor within his first term in office as a pointer to further greatness in the state and charged the electorate to reconsider him for the reelection. On his ambition, the intending lawmaker pledged to use his wealth of experiences to transform the constituency he was aspiring to represent if given the opportunity to do so by the people of the state. He stated that his resolution to vie for the position was to serve his people in the constituency and promised not to let them down in any way. According to him, “I do not take this call to service for granted as it affords me the opportunity to contribute to the making and implementation of laws that will ensure youth empowerment; laws that will guarantee the welfare of workers and retirees; laws that will ensure improvement of our country’s security architecture; laws that will guarantee social security for all; laws that will ensure constant electricity and water supply; laws that will make life better for all of us.  ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “I have also come to understand that indeed, there is the need for a young person who has lived all his life in our midst, understands the yearnings of our people and can therefore deliver good dividends of democracy right from Abuja to the grassroots of our constituency to run. “I am capable and willing and I call on all men and women of goodwill in our Federal constituency, to partner with my team on this project.” “I will be seeking the ticket of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the forthcoming Primaries of the Party and will be counting on the support of our delegates and party leaders to be victorious in a free, fair and impartial process that our party has been known for. “I am convinced God is involved in this project and He will grant us success.”