A staff of the Kwara State Fadama NG-CARES, Mallam AbdulRahim  Mohammed Abubakar, has emerged one of the recipients of the year 2022 Award Presentation by the Institute of Human and Natural Resources. The institute’s award presentation, which is a yearly event, is used to search for and celebrate public officers of integrity and quality service delivery, and who are responsible in their respective offices according to the institute’s extant standard. Abubakar, who is currently the Project Environmental Officer, Kwara Fadama NG-CARES, bagged the award during the last episode of the institute award presentation in Ilorin. Speaking after the occasion, the Zonal Coordinator, North Central, Institute of Human Resources Central,  Dr. Munonye Osondu Mills, congratulated all the recipients and advised them to continue with the mindset of commitment even if there is a storm in the service to their fatherland, saying that such is the fundamental sacrifice to make the country overcome many of its challenges. Dr. Mills particularly commented on Mohammed Abubakar, adding that the recipient is known to be diligent, committed, responsible, honest, humble, cheerful, and he goes about all his assignments with excitement. “Nomination of Abubakar for the award is a reward for hard work and integrity. The young man is an asset that any serious nation can never afford to lose. This country needs people like this guy. You see, most people do not work with smile on their faces. But Abubakar is an exception. As an environmental officer, he does his work with alacrity. He is working with the Kwara State Fadama NG-CARES, and our empirical findings revealed that he is up to the task”, explained.  The Zonal Coordinator then described Abubakar’s nomination for the ward as a harvest of honour for the state and the nation, noting that he has made the State proud. He also disclosed that the Kwara State Fadama NG-CARES ranks high in the country, ascribiing this brilliant development to the ingenuity and commitment of the Kwara State Governor, Mallam AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, for timely execution of the needful.