THREE students from the Federal Polytechnic Ukana, Akwa Ibom State; Port Harcourt Polytechnic and Captain Elechi Amadi, Rivers State who emerged as the overall best at the recently held psychometrics examination have received scholarships from the International Psychometric Centre (IPCentre). The scholarship was a fulfilment of the initial set goal by the institution which was to encourage any student who emerges as the best in the psychometrics studies across all the institutions taking the course in Nigeria. The International Psychometric Centre’s primary focus is on the tertiary education sub-sector of the Nigeria education sector, where it designs and integrates detailed psychometric studies curricula as separate General Studies (GS) courses into the existing benchmark minimum academic standards for all classes of tertiary institutions in Nigeria. A student of Port Harcourt Polytechnic, Obia Goddwell, and two other computer science students of the Federal Polytechnic Ukana, Sunday Blessed Nathaniel and Effiong Asuabiat Ime, according to head of Corporate Affairs of IPCentre, Patience Udoh, were presented with cheques of N100,000 each at their respective institutions. While making a speech during the presentation, the rector of Akanu Ibiam Polytechnics, Dr OgbonniaIbe-Enwo, thanked the management of the IPCentre in Ibadan, Oyo State, being chaired by Otunba Abimbola Mosobolaje Davis, for deeming it fit to encourage the students with scholarship initiatives. “I consider it a great honour to be part of this history-making event of today. I have been a rector for seven years, and all these years, I have never witnessed or observed this level of response to good academic performances.  “On behalf of the council, academic board and the management of this polytechnic, we extend our gratitude to the IPCentre. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This is value added; it means not only will the students pass, but they have something to look forward to as compensation for their efforts,” OgbonniaIbe-Enwo said. Speaking in the same vein, the deputy rector, Academics, Port Harcourt Polytechnic, Dr Moses Neebe, who represented the rector, thanked the IPCentre for the good gesture. He explained that psychometrics studies started late last year in the school and there were challenges with their students not willing to take up the course. He added: “if you look at the total number of students who wrote the examination, they were about 60 to 70percent of the total number of students, yet their results came out good.” He however, assured IPCentre that subsequent results will be better than this present result, stating that the course has now been added to the school curriculum which makes it a compulsory course for the students to offer.