The Federal Government has declared Monday, 2nd and Tuesday, 3rd May, 2022 as public holidays to mark this year’s Workers Day and Eid-el-Fitr respectively. Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, who made the declaration on behalf of the Federal Government congratulated workers across the country on this year’s Workers Day celebration. This was contained in a statement signed by the Permanent Secretary, Dr Shuaib Belgore, on Thursday and made available to newsmen in Abuja. Aregbesola commended workers for their hard work, diligence and sacrifice, noting that their efforts are largely responsible for the greatness of the country and the respect Nigeria now commands in the comity of nations. According to the Minister, “Labour is the very essence of humanity. We are alive because we work and only the dead are incapable of working.” Aregbesola enjoined workers to imbibe the culture of productivity, saying “The end of work is productivity. It is productivity that leads to the satisfactory provision of goods and services and wealth creation. It is, therefore, the path to national and individual prosperity.”  He urged workers to raise the bar of their trades, in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration’s drive to rev up the vehicle of governance and make all the people of Nigeria derive maximum benefit from the nation. The Minister also congratulated all Muslims on the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan. He called on all Muslims to imbibe and practice the virtues of kindness, love, tolerance, peace, self-denial, sacrifice and good neighbourliness, as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon Him). “The self-restraint, self-denial, sacrifice and deep spiritual consciousness that accompanied the fasting period should not end but be maintained and improved upon, in order to be a better person and true worshipper,” the minister advises all Muslims. The minister expresses confidence that the security challenges in some parts of the country will soon be a thing of the past, noting that the government is putting determined efforts and all necessary measures in place for Nigerians to enjoy unfettered peace all around. Aregbesola assured Nigerians that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is fully committed to the security of life and property of every citizen and foreigners alike. He commended all security agencies for the successes recorded in the fight against criminals across the country and the peace that has returned to the formerly embattled places. He urged Nigerians to be part of the nation’s security architecture by being vigilant and reporting suspicious individuals and activities to law enforcement agencies nearest to them, noting that security is everybody’s responsibility. Aregbesola wishes all Muslims a happy Eid-el-Fitr celebration and prays that the peace, blessings and favours of Allah be with you all. Ameen. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE