Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike on Wednesday had a closed-door meeting with some presidential aspirants jostling for the ticket on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) saying the purpose of the meeting was to ensure that there was unity in the party. Speaking at the meeting held at the Brick House Port Harcourt Woke also expressed the interest of the aspirants in making Nigerians happy by developing a formidable strategy that will enable the PDP coast to victory in the 2023 presidential election. “Our interest is the unity of the party. Our interest is to make Nigerians happy by making sure that by 2023, PDP takes over the reins of government because Nigerians are patiently waiting. “And I can assure you that we are going to work as a team to make Nigerians happy.” On his part, the leader of the delegation, Senator Bukola Saraki said their discussion was on identifying the best available way in ensuring that there is unity within the party and among the various presidential aspirants. According to him, they are aware that Nigerians now look up to the PDP as the only option that will provide the needed direction for the country. “We are here to have a discussion and we just finished talking about how the best way for us to reunite our party, bring unity among all those who are aspiring to lead this country under PDP. “We all realise the importance of this and PDP is the only option ready to redirect this country in the right direction and bring progress and provide a better future for our people. Saraki added: “We have been to some of the other states and today we are here with Governor of Rivers State, a key stakeholder of this party to discuss frankly. “He has given us his views and made some suggestions and we will continue to work with that as we move away from here. But the key thing is unity, the key thing is to put the country first and put the party first.” Some of those at the Wednesday closed-door meeting are the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed; Governor of Sokoto State, Rt. Hon. Aminu Tambuwal; the former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki and the former Managing Director of FSB International Bank, Dr Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…