A magistrate court sitting in Ilorin, Kwara State has ordered that a suspected kidnapper, Aliyu Yakubu, be remanded at the federal correctional centre over offences bordering on aiding and abetting kidnapping. According to the police report, the suspect along with others, who are now at large are connected to the high profile kidnapping of one Adegboyega Onijala last year while returning to his house from his farm. It was said that Yakubu and his gang were responsible for a number of kidnapping incidents that happened at Olla, Oko, Idofin-igbana and Oro-Ago communities in the Kwara South senatorial district. The police said that it was revealed during the investigation at the anti-kidnapping squad office, that Yakubu criminally conspired with others now at large to aid or abet the kidnapping of Onijala of Olla town. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “Onijala was, however, killed in the forest when his family could not meet up with the ransom demanded by his abductors.” The defendant denied his involvement in the alleged offences levelled against him, saying it was all a set-up by his adversaries. The prosecutor, Adewunmi Johnson, presented a motion ex parte to the court, dated April 19, to seek for remand of Yakubu, citing section 299 of Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Kwara state, 2015. The presiding magistrate, Fatimah Salihu, obliged the prosecutor’s plea, ordering the defendant to be remanded in prison and also adjourned the matter till May 11 for further mention. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Suspected kidnapper remanded in Kwara Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Suspected kidnapper remanded in Kwara