THE Aenon Foundation has completed this year’s annual science quiz competition among 102 secondary schools in Osun State. The annual programme, sponsored by the chairman of Aenon Foundations, Dr Ademola Adedapo, was aimed at enhancing brilliant academic performance among secondary school students and encouraging more students to embrace science subjects. The mouth-watering prizes given to the winners were to serve as impetus to achieving these aims. In his remarks, Dr Ademola said, “supporting our educational system through this quiz programme will further encourage and provoke our teeming youths’ self-confidence and dependence, build their capacity, improve their innovations and creativity, help them discover and actualise their talents through capacity building, thereby leading to self-sustenance.” Speaking at the event, the coordinator of the programme, Mr Adegoke Akinloye, said that the first two editions of the programme took place in 2019 and 2020. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  “To God’s glory, to commemorate the 50th birthday of Dr Adedapo, the grand finale of the third edition took place on 21st March, 2022,  at Engr Adedapo Hall, Aenon Suits and Hotel, at Okefia,  Osogbo,” Mr Akinloye said. He disclosed further that the competition was organised among 102 secondary schools in the Osun West Senatorial district. Hopefully, he added, this could be extended to other secondary schools in the entire state in the nearest future. The Osun West Senatorial District comprises 10 local government areas, including Ayedaade, Ayedire, Ede South, Ede North, Egbedore, Ejigbo, Irewole, Isokan, Iwo and Ola-Oluwa. The students were tested in five subjects, which included physics, chemistry, biology, Mathematics and English Language. In his remarks, the leader of the quiz facilitators, Mr Rasak Waheed Adetunji, said that the purpose of the quiz was to test the intellectual abilities of participating students and prepare them for greater educational attainments in life. Students who made it to the final stage of the third edition 2022  were Olaleke Philip of St. David High School, Ode Omu; Kayode Oluwasegun of Agboran School of Science, Ede; Okunola Sunday of Kuta Community High School, Ayedire and Sarafadeen Maryam of Islahudeen Grammar School, Iwo. At the end of the competition, the winner, Olaleke Philip, went home with a sum of N250,000 and a laptop. The runner-up,  Kayode Oluwasegun, won N150,000 and a laptop. The student in the third position, Sarafadeen Maryam, won N100,000 and a laptop, while the fourth position went to Okunola Sunday, who won a sum of N50,000.