In a determined effort to meet the yearnings and aspirations for self-administration, Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir has disclosed that his administration will very soon create additional Districts and appoint District Heads in some Emirates in the state in other to ensure fairness, equity and justice in collaboration with the council of Emirs, particularly in Dass and the Jama’are Emirates. The Governor also reiterated the determination of his administration to reinvigorate the traditional institution which is closer to the people thereby making administration easier and conducive. The Governor was speaking when he had the annual Ramadan fast breaking (Iftar) with the state Council of Traditional Rulers at the Banquet Hall of the Government House Thursday evening saying that his administration will continue to work with the traditional internation to ensure sustainable peace and development. Bala Mohammed urged them not to relent in their roles as custodians of cultural values of the people stressing that his administration has granted autonomy to local government councils to enable the Chairmen deliver dividends of democracy to the people. Bala Mohammed described traditional institutions as the most important agent of societal development and appealed to them to maintain their image by not supporting criminal activities. On the issue of land encroachment, the Governor called on the traditional rulers to liaise with the LGC Chairmen as leaders in averting land racketeering across the state. The Governor assured that his government will regain the lost glory of the traditional institutions calling on people of the state to continue to support his administration in the quest to develop the state more than how he met it. In his response, the Emir of Katagum, Dr Umar Farouk II appreciated the Governor for honoring the traditional Institution in many ways, pledging their loyalty and support. The Emir described Governor Bala Mohammed as the most prudent and successful Governor so far in the history of the state acknowledging the commitment and dedication of the Governor towards ensuring the advancement of the state. He also said that the Governor has performed beyond their expectations considering the numerous developmental projects either completed and commissioned or ongoing across the state. The monarch further expressed gratitude to the Governor for his respect to traditional institutions and equally called for the review of the salaries of traditional rulers for effective service delivery. He said that, “Your Excellency, you are our own and is only you we know and our support is for your. You have done so much to protect us and the image of the traditional institutions and we will reciprocate the gesture” . The Emir stressed that, “You are a successful, most prudent Governor and the most successful politician in Nigeria and we are grateful for your respect to us as you have shown that you are from a Royal family.” Alhaji Umar Faruq then assured the Governor of the support and cooperation of Emirs and the District Heads to his administration for more successes in the delivery of dividends of democracy to the citizens of the state.