More than 175, 000 candidates on Saturday sat for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) Mock Examination nationwide. Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Professor Is-haq Oloyede made this during monitoring of the exercise, described as  hitch-free by some of the candidates. The examination was organised for candidates who registered for 2022 UTME and earlier indicated interest to sit for the mock examinations in preparation for UTME proper. At Global Distance Learning  Institute, Abuja, where Nigerian Tribune monitored the mock examinations, Alice Uche, said the examination was hitch-free. “I didn’t experience any technical challenges, the examination went well, she said. The Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Ishaq Oloyede , who monitored the examinations in Lagos and Ogun States, South-west Nigeria applauded the conduct and said the turn out was impressive. He disclosed that a center was delisted in Lagos State for it inability to sustain the use of alternative power supply while he directed that candidates money for the mock exam be returned. “I have done sample inspection in Lagos and Ogun State. The turnout was impressive, we are satisfied with the level of performance. In the process, a centre in Brain Point CBT centre in Oko-Oba, Lagos State who could not sustain their generator was automatically delisted and I gave instructions that the candidates in the centre should be refunded given their full money.” “We assured centres that is why we allowed the centres to collect up to N1,000 instead on the earlier N790, they should continue to give their best” Prof. Oloyede tasked the tertiary institutions to maintain their facilities while adding that some of the centers are sub-standard. “Some of the institutions especially tertiary institutions need to keep up and maintain their facilities because the facilities of some tertiary institutions are substandard but we are happy with the general performance of the examination” Prof. Oloyede called on stakeholders to learn from the mock examinations adding that it was a test of abilities. He disclosed that only 175000 candidates sat for the mock following the limited space available to candidates who indicated interest in the exams. ”175, 000 candidates sat for the examination because we limited the number as we do not want to do more than one session across the country. The session starts from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. “We urged stakeholders to learn from the mock examination. It is to test their abilities. They should read . In the two states I visited, it worked”. The JAMB Registrar urged candidates to learn from the lessons of the mock examinations which he said was not a determinant of the main exams result “All students should make sure that they learn from the lesson of the mock examination which is to test their ability this is because it does not follow that when you pass the mock examination they must also pass the main examination it is just a testing so they should read. In the two states I visited, the centres worked very well,” he said. No fewer than 1,837,011 candidates have been registered for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. The 2022 UTME is scheduled to hold between 6th and 16th of May, 2022.