Operatives of the Anambra State Police Command, led by the state commissioner of police, CP Echeng Echeng, have killed a member of a group after they attempted to attack another police station in the state. Tribune Online learnt that the gang of gunmen had attacked Nteje police station, but luck ran out on them when operatives of the command got a tip-off and launched a counter on them. Just Tuesday morning, some gunmen had attacked a police station at Ogbaru, killing four police officers and razing down the station. Anambra State Police command’s spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga,f who disclosed the latest attack on Nteje police station said the gunmen visited the state at 3 am on Thursday.  He said the CP led operatives to the affected police station, where one of the gunmen was felled, and a rifle and magazine were recovered from him. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE A press release by Ikenga read: “Anambra Police Operatives led by CP Echeng Echeng today 14/4/2022 at about 3 am foiled an attack by gunmen at Nteje Divisional headquarters Oyi LGA. “The Operatives recovered one type O6 rifle, one magazine and fifty-three live ammunition of 5.56mm and charms. “The Commissioner of Police CP Echeng, led the crack squad when responding to the distress call as the station came under attack by the deadly gang. The Police Operatives decisively dealt with the assailants. “During the gun duel, one of the gunmen was neutralised and due to the superior fire of the police operatives made the assailants flee the scene. The station was secured and all police operatives and arms are intact,” Ikenga said. The spokesperson quoted CP Echeng as reiterating that the command will not relent in delivering on its mandate on the protection of life and properties. He also commended the officers and men of the command for their perseverance and painstaking efforts to weed out all criminal elements in the state. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Anambra police kill gunman, recover rifle, charms in another police station attack Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Anambra police kill gunman, recover rifle, charms in another police station attack