Legend Extra Stout and Star Radler have announced the onboarding of prominent Afrobeats star, Oluwatobiloba Daniel Anidugbe, popularly known as Kizz Daniel, as brand ambassador. The singer will join BB Naija’s Erica Nlewedim as the face of the two brands housed with Nigeria Breweries and play an important role in strengthening its presence across Nigeria. The signing took place at a cocktail event that preceded the Legend/Star Radler ‘We’re Outside Mix Party’ that was held at the Moist Beach, Oniru, Lagos. Throughout the partnership, Kizz Daniel will be spearheading various innovative campaigns that align with both brands’ ideals that encourage authenticity and originality as well as fun and excitement. The campaign, which is expected to take several creative routes will amplify the brand’s qualities that allude to the use of the finest ingredients. The campaign will be released on both online and offline platforms. Kizz Daniel launched his musical career in 2014 and has since amassed a good following with his music, as well as collaborating with some of the biggest acts to emerge from Africa, namely: Wizkid, Davido, Nasty C, Diamond Platnumz. Excited about inking the deal, Kizz Daniel Said, “Legend Extra Stout and Star Radler are names that speak for themselves and I am excited to be working with both of them. I feel honoured to be part of the process in terms of storytelling that inspires millions of people.” Launched in 1992 into the Nigerian market through the Nigerian Breweries, Legend Extra Stout has undergone a series of reformulations and product package facelifts that match the rich taste and appeal of stout lovers with no compromise in quality. Star Radler on its part has been a shining brand in beer and bar culture since it was launched by Nigerian Breweries Plc in 2014. It is recognised for its quality and unique flavour, bridging the gap between those who love the fine taste of beer and those who enjoy lighter flavours, providing the right satisfaction for consumers. On her part, Portfolio Manager, Flavoured, Non-Lager And Craft, Nigerian Breweries Plc; Maria Shadeko, hinted that the ambassadorial signing with a strategic one. She said, “Kizz Daniel’s influence on contemporary afrobeat music, fashion and lifestyle are of immense impact. Climbing through the rungs to where he is now, he has shown exceptional craftsmanship in his creative process that has already left some legacies. “It is these qualities that we identify with and that led to his signing. It aligns with our core visions of authenticity, originality fun and excitement. In the coming months, we hope to achieve a lot together.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE