LAGOS State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has met with stakeholders as part of consultations on the return of tolling to the Ikoyi Link Bridge, and has agreed to make some concessions details of which will soon be announced by the Lagos Concession Company (LCC) management. Some stakeholders were not pleased with the move to return the tolling at the Lekki plaza, which the state government announced its reopening on April 1, having been shut down, following the #EndSARS protests that rocked the state. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, made this known in a statement made available to newsmen, saying Governor Sanwo-Olu gave the pledge at the meeting with the stakeholders, which took place on Sunday, at the Lagos House, Marina. Omotoso said the stakeholders explained their position on the matter and demanded some concessions, following which the governor agreed to make some concessions after showing evidence of LCC’s financial situation and why tolling should resume at the plaza. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The commissioner disclosed that the LCC management would soon be announcing details of the concessions, following Governor Sanwo-Olu’s directive. “The guests explained their position on the matter and demanded some concessions. Mr Sanwo-Olu agreed to make some concessions after showing evidence of LCC’s financial situation and why tolling should resume at the plaza. “The LCC management will soon be announcing details of the concessions, following Mr Governor’s directive,” Omotoso said. Those at the meeting, according to the commissioner, were leaders of the Lekki Residents Association (LERA) and Lekki Residents and Stakeholders Association (LERSA). He said that those who came “on the government’s side were, besides Mr Governor, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo; Commissioner for Transportation, Frédéric Oladeinde; Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso; LCC Managing Director, Yomi Omomuwasan and LCC Board member, Obafemi George. “Also at the meeting were President of LERSA, Olorogun James Emadoye; Vice President of LERSA, O.P.A. Ladega; Financial Secretary, LERSA, Mr Keji Olajide; Director of Stakeholders Engagements, LERSA, Mrs Chika Allison-Idalah; and chairman of Infrastructure Committee, LERSA, Alhaji Sulyman Bello. Others were the chairman of Lekki Phase 1 Estate Residents Association (LERA), Mr Yomi Idowu; Mr Sony Irabor (LERA), Mr Demola Folarin (LERA), Mr Seni Adio (LERA), Mrs Eniola (LERA), and Mr Paul Kogoro (LERA),” he said.