UK-trained engineer and Development expert, Engr. Terhemen Tilley-Gyado of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday formally declared his intention to contest the Benue governorship elections at the party secretariat in Makurdi. Tilley-Gyado, who made this known to the party executives and stakeholders amidst fanfare at the State Secretariat, Makurdi, called on them to bless and support his aspiration for the good of the State. He made the declaration after thousands of youths and women across the local government areas rallied through the streets of the capital in solidarity with his aspiration, calling the people of the state to embrace him as the APC candidate. While addressing party executives and stakeholders, Terhemen Tilley-Gyado, a native of Vandeikya Local Government, noted that he is in a prime position to wrest power from the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. He further stated that beyond the capacity to win the election, he is equipped to deliver good governance and development to the State in the key areas of job creation, poverty reduction, security, roads, education, health, power, and agriculture. “The situation in Benue is critical. It requires a compassionate, innovative and visionary leadership to move the people and state forward,” Terheme remarked while making the declaration before the party leaders. “We can no longer leave it to others. This is why I am accepting the call of God and our people to bring the change they deserve.  “They have suffered a lot in the past years. Now, we are bringing them good time. Our focus is on building a stronger economy, better education, infrastructure, Agriculture, ICT women and youth development. “With our wonderful party and myself as the candidate, by His Grace, we are declaring war on poverty, insecurity, and poor staff welfare. We will win the polls and build a safe and prosperous state that works for all.” While welcoming him on behalf of the party, the Secretary Rt. Hon. Paul Biam commended Engr. Tilley- Gyado for the diverse group of supporters, acknowledging his capability to lead the state. “I have had engagement with you before and I was impressed with your level of intelligence and passion for the welfare of our people and the growth of the state. The number of people here, especially the women, is remarkable. It shows the quality of our party in the state.  In his response, APC Chairman, represented by the Deputy chairman Rt. Hon. Stephen Tsav also commended the bravery of the aspirant, describing his ambition as a welcome development. He recalled the years of service and sacrifice of Engr. Terhemen’s grandfather, Chief Jerome Tilley-Gyado, and the contributions that he made to the development of Tiv, Benue, and Nigeria at large. He expressed pleasure that Engr. Terhemen had taken in his footstep by always showing concern for the progress of his people and extending a hand of fellowship and support. The Deputy chairman pledged that the party would give all the aspirants a level praying ground. He called for unity within the party, urging the aspirants to extend hands of sportsmanship to one another before and after the primaries. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…