More than 80 victims of terrorist attacks in the Kanam local government area of Plateau State were given mass burials in their respective communities and villages in the council area. Recalled that terrorists on bikes in their large number on Sunday attacked about seven communities in the local government and killed more than 80 people. Nigerian Tribune findings revealed that government and business activities in the council area were paralysed on Monday as people abandoned their works to pay their last respect to those that lost their lives. Some of the residents of the communities who escaped the incident expressed worries about the presence of terrorist groups in the area, adding that the elements have been hibernating in the game reserve in the local government for quite some time before the Sunday attack. It was further gathered that majority of those killed were given mass burial amidst wailing by their loved ones who thronged the venues to pay their last respect to the victims. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE However, the member representing Pankshin, Kanam, Kanke (PKK) in the House of Representatives, Rt Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi, has condemned without equivocation, the terrorist attacks on several communities in Kanam Local Government Area. The lawmaker in a statement made available to newsmen commiserated with the families of those who lost their loved ones and prayed God almighty to forgive shortcomings of the victims and grant them everlasting rest. The lawmaker, who is the chairman of the House Committee on Armed Forces said the Minister of Defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) has been contacted over the development and requested for immediate military presence in the affected communities and those bordering them in order to arrest the surging activities of bandits in communities within his Constituency. Gagdi fumed at federal government’s negligence to provide security to Plateau communities, despite intelligent reports by the DSS, of the influx of bandits fleeing to Plateau and other neighbouring states over nine months before this attack was carried out. According to him, the federal government, who has exclusive control of security apparatus in the country has woefully failed in its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property of Nigerians. Gagdi expressed outrage at the devastating state of security in the country, positing that somebody has been negligent in the discharge of his duties to Nigerians, maintaing that it was high time the federal government owned up to their inability to discharge this sacrosanct duty it owes Nigerians.