The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has deployed its personnel nationwide as part of a collaboration with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and other stakeholders to ensure smooth flow of traffic and emergency response during the Sallah celebration. The deployment is a continuation of a similar exercise during the recent Easter celebration and would last for a period of one week. NEMA offices nationwide have been asked to deploy personnel and equipment this weekend to strategic road corridors that usually experience high volume of vehicular movements during festivities. The deployment is also aimed at rallying the support of relevant stakeholders towards assisting the FRSC, which is the lead agency to minimise road crashes and prompt response to emergencies. The critical stakeholders under the joint exercise with NEMA and the FRSC include Nigeria Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), Directorates of Road Transport Services (otherwise known as VIO) and National Union of Road Transport Workers and others in the various states and FCT Abuja. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. NEMA, FRSC deploy personnel to ensure accident-free Sallah celebration NEMA, FRSC deploy personnel to ensure accident-free Sallah celebration