THE Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Mohammed Bello-Koko, has restated the Authority’s commitment to the development of the Maritime Organisation of West and Central Africa (MOWCA). This is even as Bello-Koko urged MOWCA to draw short, medium, long term goals for the sub-regional group. Bello-Koko, who said this on Tuesday when he received the MOWCA Secretary-General, Dr Paul Adalikwu in Lagos, also commended the roadmap for a better MOWCA being put in place by the new scribe. He said the NPA has always been cooperating with the organisation in respect of the diligent calculation of Nigeria’s dues to the organisation and has been ensuring the timely release of such funds in the last 47 years, even when no Nigerian was working at the MOWCA secretariat. While describing the reorganisation of the MOWCA secretariat under Adalikwu, in line with its establishment charter as a good example of due process, he advised the Secretary-General to draw short, medium and long term goals for the regional maritime body.  This, according to the MD, would help in reaping “low hanging fruits” while urging the Secretary-General to emplace training programmes that would help build the capacity of maritime experts and professionals across member countries. Adalikwu who visited NPA as part of his maiden official visit to Nigeria since assuming office in Abidjan in January 2022, disclosed that the Regional Maritime Development Bank to be headquartered in Abuja has gotten almost 10 member states to sign the bank’s charter. He added that plans have reached an advanced stage for the launch of the bank later this year. The SG also said the President of the bank will be a Nigerian with two Vice Presidents from Cameroon and Cote D’Ivoire. Adalikwu also told NPA MD that prior to his assumption of office, there were no proper personnel records. He said the 25 staff organisation now have files, staff numbers and all necessary documentation as expected of an international organisation. On relationship with other international organisations, Adalikwu said his office will engage with the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) in London, World Maritime University(WMU) in Malmo Sweden and the secretariat of African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) in Accra Ghana to advance benefits to member countries. The MOWCA Scribe said his office will engage with the IMO Secretary-General to reactivate a desk for MOWCA while working for Nigeria and other member countries to be on the council of the organisation in  2023. He expressed willingness to pursue strong MOWCA representation in the comity of maritime nations to avail West and Central Africa the opportunity to be part of global maritime decision making, especially where it affects the two sub-regions’ interest. He said MOWCA is about opening talks with WMU for academic exchange programmes and support of resource persons to boost the capacity of maritime training institutions in member states. The Secretary-General who described AfCFTA regime as very laudable said MOWCA would interface with the secretariat in Accra on how best to harness maritime trading potentials amongst African countries. MOWCA secretariat, he added would also explore possibilities of promoting dry port and inland container depot establishment in landlocked countries involved in import and export. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector