Chairman, Lagos Island Local Government, Hon (Prince) Tijani Adetoyese Olusi, in a bid to deliver on his administration’s drive for a cleaner Lagos, has summoned all market leaders in Ebute-Ero Gorodom Market after receiving the preliminary report of the sanitation corps. The meeting is to deliberate on the locked-up iron built on the drainages in the market, making it almost impossible for sanitation exercises, with Olusi vowing to leave no stone unturned for a cleaner and safe Lagos Island. This was just as the council boss while speaking with the sanitation corps in his office on Thursday, appreciated the work done at the Ebute-Ero Market, and emphasized the need for a repeat from time to time. “I appreciate the efforts of your team in the desilting of the Ebute-Ero Market today. As regards the extension on the drainages, I need to see all the leaders controlling the market; because I will leave no stone unturned for a cleaner and safe Lagos Island,” the LG boss vowed.  The environmental team, led by the supervisor for environment, Alhaji Audu Raheem Atanda, had last week embarked on a general inspection and desilting of Ebute-Ero/Gorodom Market. The desilting started from Oke-Arin behind the Modile Palace through Gorodom market, Ebute Ero and into the Lagos Lagoon. The massive wastes evacuated from the drains were plastic packs, pet bottles, ropes, and other items apparently dropped into the sewage by people in the markets. The Otun-Iyaloja of Ebute-Ero Market, Alhaja Sidikat Mayegun-Yekin, and the Iya-Oja, Mrs Afinni, gave kudos to the Mayor of Lagos Island on the initiative, stating that the marketers appreciated what the administration of Hon Olusi had done, urging him to continue as part of the social responsibility of his administration. In the area of weekly environmental sanitation, they, however, sadly noted that the factions in the market had whittled down the level at which they could emphasize authorities on the marketers, especially those in the other jurisdiction. Mayegun-Yekin also emphasized the need for barricades at different intersections of the market, saying that the barricades if erected would ensure that the areas where wastes were being poured into the drains would be identified and, therefore, would not overflow to other sides. “The barricades will ensure that the areas where wastes are being poured into the drains will be identified and won’t overflow to other sides,” she said. Speaking further, the Otun-Iyaloja said the market associations were happy because the drainages which had been spilling over and affecting them before now had been finally laid to rest. The supervisor for environment, Alhaji Atanda appreciated the efforts of the newly selected drain gangs and the drain ducks who came all out to make the exercise a successful one. Atanda while noting that the drains were filled to the brim by the wastes generated and dumped into them by the marketers, emphasized the need for them to embark on regular desilting and maintenance of their drainages, especially during this rainy season, to combat the flood. He also frowned on the locked-up iron over the drains by the marketers, saying that there were too many extensions which were made to block the walkways and giving no chance for people to move freely, with a lot of work needed to be done in the market in the area of sanitation and a clean environment. [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… Olusi summons market leaders Olusi summons market leaders ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… Olusi summons market leaders Olusi summons market leaders ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… Olusi summons market leaders Olusi summons market leaders 