The National Examinations Council (NECO) has rescheduled the 2022 National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) to May 7, 2022. The examination which is conducted by the Council for admissions into Federal Unity Colleges was earlier scheduled for 23rd April 2022 but a statement by the spokesperson of NECO, Mr Sani Azeez on Wednesday said the new date for the examination is May 7, 2022. He noted that the Examination was rescheduled to give states with low registration of candidates the opportunity to register their candidates for the examination. The council has accordingly extended the registration for the examination, saying registration of candidates would continue till the new date of the examination. “All candidates, parents, guardians and relevant stakeholders are therefore enjoined to take note of the new date for the examination. “The registration of candidates will continue till the new date of the examination.  “Candidates, parents and guardians are advised to download the new Examination TimeTable from the Council’s website: www.neco.gov.ng,” Azeez said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. NECO reschedules 2022 common entrance exams