THE management of the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, has denied allegations that the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF) scheme in the hospital is in shambles. The hospital, in a statement by its Public Relations Officer, Mrs Adenike Ayo, described the allegation that its medical director was personally handling the procurement process of drugs as false and malicious. The hospital said the allegation contained in a letter purportedly signed by the president of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) was untrue. It said: “The unfair description of the Head of the Pharmacy Department of the hospital, who is a seasoned pharmacist and a former state and national executive officer of the respected PSN as an ‘acolyte’ is very unfortunate. “Our responsibility as leaders in the health sector should be to engender a robust and effective health sector that will deliver comprehensive, safe and affordable health service to Nigerians and not engage in a libellous smear campaign. “Despite the attempted distractions, the management of the hospital is committed to the provision of top-class and affordable health care services to Nigerians.”  The hospital appealed to journalists to always verify information before going to the press so as not to create a negative perception of an efficient organisation. It said the procurement of drugs into the hospital followed guidelines as recommended in the National Drug Policy 3rd Edition 2021 Section 4.2, Sub-section IV Page 8, which states that ‘procurement at all levels shall be by open competitive tender and in line with the Public Procurement Act 2007 and other extant rules, regulations and circulars, as amended, and shall be conducted transparently with the advice of the pharmacy department of health facilities’. According to the hospital, its DRF committee is responsible for all the processes involved in the procurement of drugs. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The committee, it added, comprises a surgeon, the heads of pharmacy, procurement, accounts, audit, nursing and legal units of the institution. The statement added: “This diverse and multidisciplinary nature of membership in the committee ensures that no single individual can influence the process for their personal interest and gains. It ensures the availability of affordable, safe and good quality drugs. “The entire process of pre-qualification, the technical and financial bid review and the final selection of drug suppliers is carried out by this committee, of which the medical director is not a member. “These reports are forwarded to the medical director for the final approval in accordance with the Public Procurement Act 2007 which states in Section 20, Sub-section (1) page A221 that ‘the accounting officer of a procuring entity shall be the person charged with line supervision of the conduct of all procurement processes; in the case of ministries, the permanent secretary and in the case of extra-ministerial departments and corporations the Director-General (Medical Director) or officer of co-ordinate responsibility’. “The Public Procurement Act 2007 further states in Section 20, Sub-section (2) that ‘the accounting officer of every procuring entity shall have overall responsibility for the planning of organisation of tenders, evaluation of tenders and execution of all procurements’. “The National Drug Policy of 2005 that was ignorantly referred to in the published letter is outdated and has been replaced by the National Drug Policy of 2021, which takes into cognizance the Public Procurement Act 2007 in Section 4.2, Sub-section IV page 8 and Treasury Single Account (TSA) policy of 2016. “The DRF scheme, like all other revolving schemes in the institution, is highly functional and healthier than it has been in previous years. This is reflected in the range of drugs made available to patients and marked reduction in the ‘out-of-stock phenomenon’. We make bold to say that the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, does not owe any drug supplier and that payments are made immediately when due process is concluded which is usually within a reasonable time limit. “At the hospital, drug supply, drug distribution within the hospital, prescription and dispensing are completely automated and on an electronic record, thus making it very easy for auditing.”