The move for a consensus candidate among northern presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has hit the rocks as Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwa and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, have both rejected the arrangement brokered under the supervision of four military president, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. Former President of the Senate,  Bukola Saraki and Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, had on Friday been announced as the consensus candidates of the north at this time. According to the Chairman of the Northern Elders Forum, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, who made the announcement in Minna, Niger State capital,  the choice of the two aspirants had been reached after the four of aspirants began the process to reach a consensus by visiting former military president, Babangida and giving him the mandate to lead the process for a consensus. The aspirants who he said agreed to abide by the outcome of the decision, were Tambuwal,  Mohammed, Atiku and former banker, Muhammad Hayatu-Deen. The former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) had pointed out that former ex-president Babangida had advised the aspirants to have a resolution within themselves and come up with one candidate, which they reported back to him after some days and asked him to go ahead and pick one out of the four.  Prof. Abdullahi said in a statement: “While thanking the aspirants and President Ibrahim Babangida for entrusting us with the conduct of this exercise and in the hope that all parties involved would continue with mutual consultations aimed at the overall success of the party, we hereby present the following conclusion as presented to and endorsed by Gen Babangida. “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Gov Bala Mohammad from the North East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North Central be presented as the northern Consensus Candidates for the moment.” But in a swift reaction, Tambuwal faulted the arrangement, noting that the position was not correct. He said what the team agreed to after a meeting in Abuja last Wednesday was that the consensus arrangement was not working. Tambuwal noted that Saraki was mandated to issue a statement to that effect. The Sokoto governor’s position is contained in a statement issued by Nicholas Msheliza, the Director Organization and Mobilisation for his campaign organisation. It reads: “The attention of Tambuwal Campaign Organization (TCO) has been drawn to a news item that former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Gov. Bala Muhammad of Bauchi state have emerged as consensus candidates from amongst the four of us announced at a meeting in Minna, Niger state. “This is, to be candid and forthright, not correct. The correct situation is that the team met on Wednesday 20th April, 2022, at Bauchi Governor’s lodge in Abuja and had a review meeting; and, unanimously agreed that the consensus arrangement was not working. “The team further agreed that Sen. Saraki should come up with a draft statement on how to communicate this decision to the Nigerian public. This was the last time that members of the team sat and mutually agreed on anything. The proposed meeting to review and vet the statement scheduled for 10 pm of the same day was aborted unilaterally by Sen. Saraki via a WhatsApp message. “However, on Thursday, 21st, 2022, same Sen Saraki circulated yet another WhatsApp message suggesting that members of the team should head to Minna for a meeting on Friday, Gov. Tambuwal reached other members of the team and informed them that he stands by the decision of the team that the initiative is not working. “This is the reason Gov. Tambuwal was absent at today’s (Friday) meeting in Minna. As a result therefore, the outcome of the Minna meeting has no consequence or any implication on the aspiration of Gov. Tambuwal, who had earlier on informed his colleagues of maintaining their agreed position that the initiative has collapsed. “Members of the public should be reminded that what was canvassed for was a consensus candidate and not consensus  candidates. “For the avoidance of doubt, Gov. Tambuwal has submitted his Presidential nomination forms and now that the quest for a consensus candidate out of the four has clearly collapsed, will go ahead and face screening and indeed contest the PDP presidential primaries. “This is in consonance with his acclaimed outlook as a pan-Nigerian candidate, with pedigree of national service as the Speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, life member of the Body of Benchers and now in his second and final term as Governor of Sokoto State.” In the same way, the former vice president and 2019 presidential candidate of the PDP, maintained that he had never been party to the consensus arrangement, which he considered it to be sectional. According to a statement issued by the technical committee for the actualisation of Atiku Àbubakar Presidency in 2023,headed by Dr Raymond Dokpesi, the aspirant never subjected himself to the process. “Therefore, he is Not bound by any of the recommendations and conclusions of the purported report,” it said. The statement added: “Waziri Atiku Abubakar as a nationalist strongly believes that Nigeria has never been so divided as it is today,and any regional, zonal, ethno-religious gangup or consensus driven in this manner will further deepen and widen the wounds that urgently require to be healed. He is anxious to implement plans, policies and programmes that will rescue and rebuild Nigeria “Finally, we urge our supporters to continue with consultations and townhall meetings with delegates across the country as the party prepares for the presidential primaries scheduled for Saturday/ Sunday May 28 and 29, 2022.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…