Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday took a two and a half hours tour of the ongoing construction of the Blue Line Rail, assuring that the deadline was set for the first quarter of 2023 for the rail line to commence operational service was sacrosanct. Sanwo-Olu had early this year embarked on the Red Line inspection and made a promise that trains would start operating on the two lines early next year. The governor, who spoke at the Marina Station after Sunday’s inspection, expressed satisfaction with the level of construction so far, saying additional trains were to be procured for speedy commencement. He, however, warned residents who had started vandalizing some of the iron barricades, saying they would have to be cautious as the tracks were electric. According to him, unlike the Red Line along Ikeja, Alagbado to Marina axis, the Blue Line from Marina to Mile 2 would be electric, warning that citizens, including passengers, were not expected to walk on the tracks. The governor added that the law enforcement officers, in the course of enforcement of sanctions, trail the culprits up to the companies patronizing the vandals, saying if they were not patronizing them, it would be difficult to sell the stolen materials.  “We started our journey from the National Art Theatre. We were on tracks from Orile-Iganmu to Alaba Station and to Mile 2 Station and we were all taken around the stations which we called concourse. “At the Iganmu Station, it is just one but Alaba and Mile 2 are double stations. Finally, we took the train back to National Art Theatre where we all inspected a brand new train that is a typical train that will be used on the Blue Line. This is the first time I’m taking you on the Blue Line to see where we are. “The Blue Line terminates at Marina, at the back in Marina, it is an elevated station and it stretches out to outer Marina and where the Governor’s residence is, it is where it terminates. At the end of the station, you could see that the track is broken into two bridges. Why we have to have the backtrack is for parking,” the governor explained. Governor Sanwo-Olu commended the contractors for working throughout the week, projecting that the rail section would be completed in about three weeks’ time. “We are happy that the contractors are working seven days a week. The major aspect apart from the Marina Station is a sea crossing from Eko Bridge to join the outer Marina. They have to finish it in about three months. “By the time we will be coming back in July, the concrete construction should have been completed. It will just be finishing inside the train stations and the terminal buildings,” he said. “I’m also happy that we have purchased additional trains. We will be going to China in May or June just to have a look. “Based on the promises that we gave you, the Red and the Blue Lines, we have a lot to clean up and a lot of retooling and fencing, we are on track and more importantly, the third rail which is the power tracks and it will be done and I’m happy you have been able to go on the journey with us. It was an experience which I believe will be with you for a very long time,” he added. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE