Agitation for power among stakeholders within the various political parties is gradually building up to a crescendo. From local government to the federal level, the question of who gets what is now the talking point. Just as every section of the country wants to be a part of the decision-making process, so also communities at the state level are struggling to maintain their presence in government. No section, community, or individual wants to be left out of the decision-making process. In the words of D. E. Mcfarland: “Decision-making is an act of choice wherein an executive forms a conclusion about what must be done in a given situation.” Thus, what role you play in decision-making is directly related to your access to power. But power is not served a la carte. Whether as an individual or collectivity, there is always a need for effective participation in governance in order to be relevant. And that is why politics of power is largely seen as a tug of war between the forces of change and those of the status quo.An American feminist journalist and political activist, Gloria Steinem, rightly quipped, “nobody gives you power, you grab it.” However, if in the worst scenario, the power struggle is not adequately regulated, the overall interest of a group or association may be imperiled. It is against this background that concerned stakeholders in Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State are appealing to Governor Dapo Abiodun to look into the perceived marginalization of their people in terms of political lopsidedness, reflecting in appointments by the successive administrations. Indeed, since the advent of this democratic dispensation in 1999, Imeko-Afon has not had its own fair share of political appointments in the state, whereas the power-sharing formula is skewed in favour of Yewa North Local Government which shares the same Federal Constituency with Imeko-Afon LGA (ie, Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency). As equal stakeholders in the state, people are increasingly getting agitated about the short-change. Though Governor Abiodun has been commended for his avowed commitment to inclusive governance, there is still a loud disquietude in the area (Imeko-Afon LGA) for the prolonged neglect the people have had to suffer for no justifiable reason.  In the present dispensation, no single lawmaker of Imeko-Afon LGA extraction is represented at both the Green and Red Chambers of the National Assembly, Abuja. In contrast, Yewa North has Senator Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West) and Hon Jimoh Olaifa (Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency). However, the then, intra-party crisis that rocked the APC state leadership changed the narrative, traded off and skewed the battle in favour of the candidate of the opposition party, Mr Jimoh Olaifa (aka OJA). Tolu Odebiyi who hails from Yewa North was to fly the Ogun West Senatorial ticket, at the same time with Kayode Oladele, an illustrious son of Imeko, in Imeko-Afon LGA, who was then representing Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency in his first term at the Green Chamber. While Odebiyi won the Senate seat, Oladele lost out to the then, opposition candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Olaifa who incidentally, happens to be an indigene of Aiyetoro, in Yewa North LGA. History abounds that, in a bid to avoid fielding the two candidates from the same Local Government (Yewa North), as previously witnessed during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration of Otunba Gbenga Daniel between 2003 and 2011 whereby Prince Razaq Adewusi (Yewa North) emerged as Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency while Chief Kola Felix Bajomo (Yewa North) also won the Ogun West Senatorial Seat, the APC in its wisdom, conceded House of Representatives ticket to Imeko-Afon before the  equitable arrangement was thwarted by former Governor Ibikunle Amosun during the 2019 elections. It is on record that Chief Bajomo, an indigene of Ayetoro and erstwhile President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), served for four years in the Senate while, Rasak Adewusi who later emerged as Onijoun of Ijoun, but now late (from Yewa North) also spent twelve straight years in the House of Representatives (From 2003-2015), before Oladele took over from him in 2015.  Hon. Kayode Oladele, a lawyer by profession, only spent one legislative term of four years (2015-2019). In order to balance the lopsidedness and right the wrong, the initial permutation by the APC leadership in the state in the 2019 general elections, was such that was bequeathed to ensure fairness, justice and equity in the Federal Legislative slots, since Odebiyi was coming from Yewa North, while Oladele would represent Imeko-Afon LGA at the Green Chamber. Currently, Yewa North LGA has a fair share in political offices which produced Jagunmolu Jamiu Akande Omoniyi (Commissioner for Housing), and Engr Tope Kuyebi (Chairman, Ogun State Signage and Advertising Agency), Dr. Kunle Salako, Chairman of the State Hospital Management Board among others, as key government functionaries respectively not loosing sight of  another indigene of Ayetoro, Yewa North LGA, Mrs Ronke Shokefun, who is currently the Managing Director (MD), Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), who was a nominee of the former Governor Ibikunle Amosun. The same treatment was replicated with Imeko-Afon LGA having two political appointees in the person’s of Mr Femi Ogbonnikan (Media Consultant to the Governor) and Mr Emmanuel Ojo (SSA to the Governor on New Social Media). The story is not in any way different under the immediate past administration of former governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun (2011-2019). Notable among indigenes of Yewa North who had served within the period under review were  Mr. Bolaji Oyeleye) Commissioner for Environment), Mrs. Ronke Shokefun (Commissioner for Agriculture and subsequently Physical Planning and Urban Development), Rt. Hon Suraj Adekunbi Adekanmbi (Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly), Mr Bayo Adeyemi (Special Adviser on Education), Mr Seyi Enitan (SSA to the Governor on Public Communications) and Alhaji Bashiru Fadairo (Chairman, Ogun State Housing Corporation) to mention a few. On the contrary, only Chief Daniel Adejobi (Commissioner for Housing) from Imeko-Afon had a singular opportunity of being appointed a Commissioner during the first term of former Governor Ibikunle Amosun. Nobody from Imeko-Afon was given a political appointment by Amosun in his second term. The situation was that bad. Ephesus Fatunmbi, PhD, an indigene of Okeagbede, Imeko-Afon LGA, Ogun State writes from Lagos. The PDP administration of Otunba Gbenga Daniel (2003-2011) didn’t fare any better, as the bulk of the political appointments went in favour of Yewa North Local Government to the detriment of Imeko-Afon. These included Dr Isiaq Kunle Salako (Commissioner for Health), Chief Bisiriyu Popoola (Chairman, Ogun State Housing Corporation), Prince Bolaji Aretola (Special Adviser) and Dr DotunMalomo (Special Adviser on Health) etc. Other than Mr Gboyega Nasir  Isiaka ( then a technocrat and Group Managing Director, Gateway Holdings Ltd), Chief Adesina Paul Adejobi (Commissioner for Commerce and subsequently, SUBEB Chairman), Chief (Mrs) Mary Ogunjobi (Commissioner for Commerce and subsequently, Chairperson, Gateway Hotels Ltd),  who served in their various capacities, no single person from Imeko -Afon was considered qualified enough to run for either the House of Representatives or the Senate. It goes without saying that Imeko-Afon LGA has been  horizontally and vertically short-changed on all fronts since 2003. And the prolonged marginalization is not for lack of competent candidates, but due to systemic politics of exclusion or other reasons. Now is the time to change the narrative. And it behoves on Governor Abiodun to demonstrate in practical terms his policy of inclusion by ensuring fair, just and equitable distribution of political power among the constituent parts. As part of the measures to redress the injustice, the governor should use his good office to prevail on the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to concede at least a  seat in the National Assembly to the Imoke-Afon Local Government in the coming 2023 general elections.Of course, some people will argue that politics is not played on the basis of morality. Yes, it is true. But what happens to the people who have paid their dues by toiling day and night to nurture the party? While one may not pre-empt whatever is going to be the outcome of the decision of the party leadership, it is imperative to warn against any action that could jeopardize the interest of the generality of the stakeholders or assault  their sensibility. What is fair is fair. In the circumstance, the very least minimum Governor Abiodun can do to assuage the feeling of the aggrieved people of Imeko-Afon LGA have suffered several years of deprivation is to ensure that the House of Representatives slot goes to the local government in the coming general elections. Anything short of that will run against the policy of inclusion of Governor DapoAbiodun’s administration. Imeko-Afon LGA been represented in the National Assembly for just four years since 2003 to date, whereas, Yewa North would enjoy a total of 16 years by 2023. No part of the state has a monopoly on qualified candidates. What needs to be addressed to give every constituent part a true sense of belonging is the politics of exclusion which is rooted in primordial sentiment. Imeko-Afon LGA cannot be said to be lacking in human capital development to the extent of being so marginalized by concerned authorities. Perhaps one single reason the people have suffered so much neglected is the lack of representation in the decision-making organ of the state. And it should be addressed forthwith, with a true sense of fairness, justice, and equity. There is a need for a balance of the power equations between the two local governments that make up the Yewa North/Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency.  This is an appeal to Governor Abiodun ahead of the APC primaries for the coming elections. Let the authorities concerned take heed and balance the political equation . ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector