The police in Lagos State have arrested a suspected land thug, who last week led a team of hoodlums to the 6th Avenue area of Amuwo Odofin. Tribune Online gathered that live ammunition was also recovered from the suspect, while other members of his gang escaped with guns and other dangerous weapons. The suspect was arrested by policemen from Idimu Area Command after the police received a distress call that the hoodlums had invaded the area. Other members of the gang have reportedly been identified by police operatives in the state, who are on their trail. Ayo was on Wednesday arraigned before an Ajegunle Magistrate Court on a two-count charge, bordering on stealing and illegal possession of ammunition. Police sources at the Idimu Police Area Command said that the suspect claimed to be working for a certain Oluomo and TJ, who have both reportedly gone into hiding.  The police source said, “They are the people disturbing Fagbile area and 6th Avenue in FESTAC and we have been on their trail.” “Last Monday, they went there and attack some labourers and took three of them away but they had escaped by the time we got there.” The police source added that “three days after, they invaded the place again and attempted to wreak havoc but our people were proactive.” “We invaded the area and arrested AY but other members of his gang escaped. He has named the people he worked for. We have invited them but they have gone into hiding. We will get them and charge them to court too.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police arrest land thug  Police arrest land thug Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police arrest land thug  Police arrest land thug