That lives are lost as a result of domestic violence is extremely devastating. Emotional, sexual, verbal and physical abuse as well as threats of harm, are all examples of domestic violence. Speaking on the ripple effect of violence, real estate mogul and the CEO of BStan homes, Dr Becky Olubukola, has urged victims to summon the courage to take Their exit once they detect the signs of domestic abuse in the early stages of their relationship. She said: “The cycle must be broken. The more time you spend in an abusive relationship, the more physical and emotional damage you will suffer. You may get sad or anxious or you may begin to mistrust your own abilities to care for yourself. It is possible that you will feel helpless and alone but you are not” She encouraged victims to reach out for help whenever the need arose as it was difficult to realise or admit that one is involved in an abusive relationship, but, “help remains available. Keep in mind that no one deserves to be harmed.  “Domestic abuse has long term consequences that can affect children. It can result in emotional and mental issues for children, and in some cases make them equally violent. Domestic violence is something I have never tolerated and will never be able to tolerate. We must safeguard people we love and create a pleasant environment at home,” she stressed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.No one should tolerate any form of domestic violence ― Becky Olubukola No one should tolerate any form of domestic violence ― Becky Olubukola