Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello and aspirant for the office of the President, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress APC, has called on his party to zero her choice of Presidential primary on him to dismantle the fault lines that divide the nation and undermined her development. Bello said this in Abuja at the Second Annual GYB Seminar for Nigeria’s Political and Crime Correspondents. He said his candidature neutralizes the various differences and projects him as the best option open to the party in the forthcoming 2023 elections. Bello said, the desire of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) to win the 2023 presidential election must be followed with interest for the candidate that would galvanize the Nigerian electorate. He said the 2023 election should answer the queries of the Nigerian woman and the youth who are clamouring for security and employment. His words: “Now coming to the presidential election, APC wants to win the next election. “APC is a party that is in search of quality, APC is a party of nothing less than 41 million members, APC is aware that the man who mobilized over 41 million members into the party and this mobilization or a membership of the party cuts across the geopolitical zones. “Irrespective of states religion, background or class, APC knows the body language of the nation today. APC is aware that the youth and women are clamoring for that person who is destabilized who is coming to solve the insecurity challenges we are faced with today. “They are aware that man is coming to build on the project’s achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari,” Bello said. On the advantage of his candidature for the party he said: “They know what Nigeria’s are clamoring for and they know who is accepted both by the North and the South, by Muslims and Christians, or even non-believers. “They know that man who is going to turn the fortunes of this country around, he is a man that can speak the language of old and younger generation and they know that man who have performed well in the state within the shortest possible time he is saddled with the responsibility. “This time around is a time we must get to see that this sentiment of where you come from does not count. “We’re still looking at ourselves as Christians. It is time to bridge that gap and cement that relationship and bring more of that which unites us more than what divides us. “And you have a man that has practices and it has become part of our society in focus. It’s a very special grace of God. I have put myself forward to be that man, Bello said. He said that it’s good to champion the new Nigeria where all of these sentiments no longer count. He said zoning of political position was not an option to take now, especially as the nation battles with insecurity, unemployment and other challenges that do not consider any of their divisive tendencies in their usage or benefit or otherwise. He maintained that the challenges of security and unemployment do not wear the divisive traits of religion, ethnicity or age. He said: “I don’t think we should continue to dwell on that, which divides us, which is the zone we come from or the religion in practice. I happen to be a liberal. I happen to be a Muslim. I happen to come from Kogi states. “Or North Central or the Northern part of the country; But most importantly, I am Nigerian. I did not choose to be a Muslim; I was born so. I didn’t choose to be an Ebira; that is a language my people speak, and because that’s how I was born. I didn’t choose the come from Kogi states or from North Central; that is where I was born. But we want to make sure that the language you speak or the religion you practice, or where you come from, by way of origin, does not matter again, in our presidency,” the presidential aspirant stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  My candidature will dismantle faultlines  My candidature will dismantle faultlines  My candidature will dismantle faultlines  My candidature will dismantle faultlines