Members of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kwara State, under the aegis of the Alliance of Kwara North Progressive Youth, have asked the leadership of the party to zone the 2023 governorship seat to Kwara North senatorial district over alleged marginalisation. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin on Wednesday, the people drawn from five local government areas of the district, namely Edu, Pategi, Baruten, Kaiama and Moro, urged the leadership and entire members of the party to approach the coming election with sincerity and not to discount Kwara North at this most auspicious time. According to the spokesperson, Comrade Mustapha Mohammed, the people, who also carried placards to express their views, said: “Kwara State was created on May 17, 1967. Incidentally, in less than one month from now, our dear state will be 55 years old. Since the return of democracy in 1999, Kwara South has had the privilege of having the governorship seat for eight years. Kwara Central, interestingly, has enjoyed that rotational arrangement for almost 16 years. “Coincidentally, the only governor ever produced by Kwara North for 18 months, in the Second Republic was under the platform of SDP and our people are poised to repeat the same”. “In view of the above, if SDP fails to take the ticket to Kwara North, it will be an indication of continuous marginalization of Kwara Northerners and our teeming party faithful will have no option but to leave the party for a better option and that will signify the death of SDP in the zone,” he said. Comrade Mustapha Mohammed also urged the leadership of the party to work to ensure a Kwara Northerner emerges the governorship candidate in 2023 elections under the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) if we are true democrats.  “Kwara Northerners have long come together and are determined not to support any other zone in the race for the governorship seat this time. Any northerner clamouring for a candidate outside Kwara North is doing so as a money-making venture that will not translate to electoral votes come 2023. “Our people’s position is quite simple if the party fails to pick a governorship candidate from Kwara North, we might as well kiss their votes goodbye. “The Social Democratic Party, SDP, is known for social justice, and the majority of her members in Kwara State have stood against injustice by fighting past hegemonic dominance. As such, this must be re-echoed in the current political discourse in the SDP if the party must win the gubernatorial election come 2023. There can never be any meaningful state-wide development if there is a prevalence of injustice that every faith goes against.” He said that the district is blessed with many capable, competent, intelligent and intellectually vibrant technocrats and politicians who are men of integrity. “Politically, Kwara North is a powerhouse of no mean repute. The senatorial district had the second highest votes cast in the 2019 election results (34 per cent). Kwara Central about (39 per cent) while Kwara South (27 per cent). “Any argument in favour of Kwara Central factor is a fallacy as incumbency will only serve to further split the votes of Kwara Central more than that of Kwara North which as of today has SDP in the majority. The people of Kwara North are fully prepared to bring more votes than ever if given the gubernatorial ticket under the platform of SDP. This is evident as we, the major politically grassroots youths with our structures had left APC for SDP. “The ‘Otoge’ struggle of 2019 yielded a landslide victory because of the huge commitment from Kwara Northerners and other parts of the state to produce a Kwara Central governor as the ultimate beneficiary and it is time to reciprocate the gesture and stop peddling half-truths and propaganda to serve parochial
interests. “In furtherance, we are warning the leadership of our dear party at the national level that 2023 will be the second wave of Otoge that will reset Kwara, enshrine inclusive governance and make the state a shining example of true democracy that will stand for Unity and Social Justice for all. “We cannot continue to play the ostrich. We must unanimously agree on the zoning of the governorship seat to Kwara North senatorial district. And all hands must be on deck to ensure victory in the 2023 general elections.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.2023: Kwara North SDP threatens to quit party if governorship ticket not zoned to district 2023: Kwara North SDP threatens to quit party if governorship ticket not zoned to district Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False 2023: Kwara North SDP threatens to quit party if governorship ticket not zoned to district