The Ebonyi State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, has said the fragments of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have since been decimated in the state. Chief Emegha made this known while reacting on the recent judgement of the Federal High Court, Abuja that sacked the embattled chairman of the PDP in the state, Mr Tochukwu Okorie. The APC chairman noted that the recent development has no bearing on the activities of his party because PDP has never been a viable opposition in the state since Governor David Umahi left the party in 2020. “Before now, only few disgruntled elements were parading themselves as a political party called PDP but with the court’s pronouncement today and subsequent swearing in of another person as its chairman, it means there is more trouble among the so called individuals.  “For me, how can a political party which could not elect its leaders in a manner acceptable by the law boost of any relevance. Let me tell you that, if they want let them appoint anybody as a chairman, they cannot win even single elective position in the state come 2023 general elections. “Ebonyi PDP is just a group of ungrateful, barbaric, unscrupulous people seeking for relevance at all cost. I have never considered PDP as an opposition because it lacks unity, strength and organisation as a political party. “Immediately the state governor Chief David Nweze Umahi defected to APC in November, 2020, opposition political party died in Ebonyi. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “How can a political party without a structure in terms of leadership operate from a hotel be dreaming of even of tangible success? PDP is totally abysmal. “If this is a misfortune or debacle, please let them sort themselves out and learn, not be jumping the gun by following due process because this is not the era where PDP was in charge of the country and was allowing impunity and abuse of process to be the order of the day. “Just yesterday also, the PDP rats saturated the media with fake news saying that my Governor Chief David Nweze Umahi has dropped his presidential ambition. In a swift response to that unfounded allegation, I told the APC faithful and Nigerians at large to discountenance the rumour because it was the handiwork of evil minded PDP members who never wished the people any good.”