The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), has begun its National Adopted Village for Smart Agriculture (NASVA) training programme for 50 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members. The training, in collaboration with the agency’s subsidiary, the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (NCAIR) and the Abuja Technology Village (ATV), began in Abuja last week. The training is part of the agency’s activities to ensure that all sectors of the country are digitally-driven. Mr Kashifu Inuwa, the Director-General, NITDA, urged the participants at the opening to seize the opportunity and be intentionally interested in agricultural entrepreneurship. Represented by Mr Salisu Kaka, cting Director, Digital Economy Development Department of NITDA, Inuwa said the skills to be learnt would enable the participants to create jobs. According to him, the participants would also be able to contribute their quota to ensuring increased productivity, profitability, food security and agriculture efficiency. The NITDA boss urged them to be committed to the programme, adding that it would last for six months and was expected to be transformational and in turn, help them to be self-sufficient and job providers. “Creativity and innovative thinking must be applied to developing better ways of solving economic issues in the country, especially in the agricultural sector. “The initiative is part of the agency’s Strategic Roadmap and Action Plan (SRAP 2021-2024) and we hope that alongside our partners, we will engage more beneficiaries,” Inuwa said. The National Coordinator of NCAIR, Mr Garba Ya’u, told the corps members that their intentions to become smart farmers should translate to tangible innovative ideas in order to move the sector forward. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.