 ‘You will also contact us! We will explain more,’ the message, in apparently broken English, continues. ‘Good deal, we’ll give you the right to pay the amount you want depending on the amount of data you want.’ It said the group downloaded 161 gigabytes from the company, which it would sell for more than $640,000 or more than 16 million in Bitcoin. Among the stolen files, according to CISO Advisor, are financial data, passwords and commercial accounts. The group had previously made waves for expressing its support of Russian forces in its invasion of Ukraine. It also previously posted a poll on the Telegram messaging service asking which company it should go after. After 103 votes were cast, Security Affairs reports, Coca-Cola received 72 per cent.
Stormous is a relative newcomer in the hacking world but gained attention at the beginning of the year. They said they had stolen 200 gigabytes of data from Epic Games and later made headlines when it announced its support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It remains unclear where the group is based, with The Record reporting most of its messages are in Arabic. It wrote in English at the beginning of March: ‘The Stromous team has officially announced its support for the Russian governments. ‘And if any party in different parts of the world decides to organize a cyber attack or cyberattacks against Russia, we will be in the right direction, will make all our efforts to abandon the supplication of the West, especially the infrastructure. ‘Perhaps the hacking operation that our team carried out for the government of Ukraine and a Ukrainian airline was just a simple operation, but what is coming will be bigger,’ the group warned. It also issued a warning against ‘western unions’ and US-based companies, after it said it was ‘attacked’ by US companies that shut down their site. Just a few days after the group’s announcement, on March 8, Coca-Cola announced it was suspending its operations in Russia in opposition to its invasion. The company said: ‘Our hearts are with the people who are enduring unconscionable effects from these tragic events in Ukraine.’ It added: ‘We will continue to monitor and assess the situation as circumstances evolve.’ Coca-Cola executives estimate the decision will tentatively reduce the corporation’s net revenue and operating profit for the year by 1 to 2 per cent. Its net profit has already decreased by 23.5 per cent, compared to the same period last year, according to its first-quarter report, issued on Monday. But its quarterly revenue rose by 5 per cent to $9.02 billion from $8.6 billion. The firm is trading at $65.69, down nearly half a percentage point from the day before. But it is continuing to double down on its support for Ukraine, noting in its filing it will provide $15billion in aid to the country. It wrote: ‘This funding will support further relief efforts by the Red Cross and other organizations operating in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, heling millions of displaced people.’ A spokesman for Coca-Cola said they are investigating the claims of stolen data, and have already contacted law enforcement. ‘We are aware of this matter and are investigating to determine the validity of the claim,’ communications vice president Scott Leith told The Record. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Russian-linked hackers says they’ve hacked Coca-Cola We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents Russian-linked hackers says they’ve hacked Coca-Cola