The National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) and the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) have commission cemented plans to kickstart a massive campaign of culture of safety on Nigerian roads. This decision was the outcome of a meeting between the Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe and the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Commission, Boboye Oyeyemi at the Corp headquarters in Abuja. Runsewe, who expressed appreciation to the Corps Marshal for the warm reception accorded him and his management team, said he was overwhelmed with the state- of- the art facilities at the Commission monitoring and control room as well as the FRSC radio station, broadcasting from 107.1 FM when he was conducted round. Runsewe commended the Corps Marshal for his visionary leadership which had culminated in the sustenance of the vision and mandate of the FRSC. He, however noted with dismay that major causes of mishaps on roads stem from the fact that cultural values as Nigerians have been eroded, adding that there was urgent need for a reorientation for all road users. He also stressed the need for increased synergy and collaboration between both organisations to sensitise road users on the moral imperative of imbibing the culture of safety on the roads to reduce accidents and avoid needless loss of lives.  According to Runsewe “it is alien to our culture to drink and drive. It is also not in our culture to use electronic gadgets like phones and to over speed while driving, adding that NCAC is ready to collaborate with the FRSC in its drive to educate Nigerians on the need to restore sanity on our roads by reenacting the culture of safety.” In his response, Oyeyemi expressed delight for the visit which he said came at a time when the commission needed to increase its synergy with critical stakeholders on measures to ensure attitudinal change of road users. He said the FRSC was proud to partner with NCAC that had a deep passion for the Nigerian project and had contributed immensely in beaming the image of Nigeria home and abroad within the culture and tourism space. He maintained that one of the cardinal responsibilities of the FRSC was to ensure that all road users, especially the drivers at various motor parks across the country, are well schooled on safety protocols before embarking on their journey adding that the exercise had yielded positive results as cases of accidents on the roads had reduced drastically. The corps marshall expressed the FRSC readiness to collaborate with the NCAC by allocating a  30 minutes slot on the FM Radio for the Corps educational officers and for NCAC to introduce the much-needed cultural content in its safety and enlightenment campaigns to the public as  much still need to be done in that regard. The Corps Marshal, while presenting safety books for the NCAC library, expressed delight on the veritable platform created by the partnership and remarked that NCAC would form an integral part of its campaign machinery since it had the capacity in terms of language, dance arts and craft to culturally drive home the safety messages. Highlight of the meeting was the unveiling of the symbol of cooperation between the two organisations with the insignia: “NCAC and FRSC a partnership that works” followed by presentation of gifts by the heads of both organisations. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FRSC partner to promote  FRSC partner to promote Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FRSC partner to promote  FRSC partner to promote