As part of efforts to curb insecurity in Ondo State, workers under the auspices of Joint Negotiating Council (JNC) has donated 30 motorcycles to the state Security Network, code-named Amotekun Corps, to assist the state security outfit to discharge its duty of providing security to residents of the state. Speaking during the presentation of the motorcycles to the security corps, the Chairman of JNC,  Mr. Oluwaniyi Fabunmi, said the gesture was part of the workers’ support for the state government in its efforts at fighting crime in the state. According to him, the workers in the state noted that the corps had helped to reduce crimes across the state and noted that the fight against insecurity cannot be left to the state government alone and decided to donate the motorcycles. He explained that the initiative was to support the state government’s effort at making the state crime free, adding that the gesture was aimed at further assisting the corps in their operations and performance.  He commended  the state governor, Mr.  Rotimi Akeredolu for not using the Corps for political purpose since it was created two years ago but to strictly to fight insecurity in the state. Also speaking, the state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Sunday Adeleye, said “It is a known fact that the security network was mainly created to secure lives and property in the state, and certainly not to witchunt anyone. “We felt as a union to do the little we can to assist Amotekun by way of tasking ourselves to purchase motorcycles, as this would go a along way for the officers to reach the far rural areas in the forests where vehicles cannot reach. “It is no longer news that government is still owing us salaries and allowances but what is important is the security of lives and property in the state,” he said. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Union and Labour Matters, Mr Dare Aragbaiye, who received the motorcycles on behalf of governor Akeredolu, commended the workers for the donation. He said the motorcycles would be useful to track criminals, especially in the main forests across the state where vehicles could not reach. He emphasised his administration’s commitment at ensuring the safety of lives and properties of the people of the state at all time. He called on the people of the state to always supply timely information to the Corps to make Ondo state a more secured environment. “It is unprecedented. It is not only appreciated by the governor and the state government, I’m sure it will be appreciated by all well-meaning people of Ondo state” The state Commander of Amotekun Corps, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, said the donation would assist the Corps to do more in protecting the people of the state, especially in the rural communities. Adeleye solicited for more support for the corps, saying the motorcycles will be distributed to all the eighteen local government areas. He assured that the security outfit would be on 24 hours patrol during the Easter celebration across the state.