The situation in northern Nigeria is worrisome and uncalled for. One may be right to say northerners and their leaders are in pretty kettle of fish. Northerners are the most injured and distressed with this government. They are left at the mercies of overwhelming hunger that causes severe malnutrition, domestic violence, social vices, corrupt leadership, political hegemony, kidnapping and banditry. Yet, the northern leaders do not care about the future of their younger ones. This is shocking, but not surprising. Northern stakeholders are good at what they do, which is accumulating wealth for themselves. Many of them do not think of the betterment of the vulnerable and the poor. We are doomed in northern Nigeria. The value of lives in the region is zero, and nobody counts the loss of a northerner as a loss. This is not the country we pray for. When should we sleep with our eyes closed? When should we be free from murderous activities? When will our government be serious for once? When should our wives, sisters and mothers be free from rape and sexual harassment? When should we have access to basic education as the constitution mandates? If President Muhammadu Buhari that is from the North cannot secure and protect northerners, whom do we expect to do it for us? If our governors, senators, chairmen, federal representatives and state representatives cannot truly represent and voice out our grievances, whom do we expect to do it for us?, this is not the country we pray for, our leaders should remember that a good name is better than riches. Abdulazeez Alhassan, Kaduna YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws.  Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.