A group, The Patriotic Movement for Osinbajo 2023, has called on Nigerians to support the bid of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to become the next president of the country. The South-West chapter of the group met in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, to advocate the candidacy of Osinbajo whom it described as the best candidate for the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 presidential race. In a remark at the meeting, the South-West coordinator of the group, Chief Moshood Odelalu, described Osinbajo as a loyal deputy to President Muhammadu Buhari and an exemplary party man. Odelalu, who is a former vice chairman of Egbeda Local Government Area of Oyo State, said as a competent, vibrant and liberal leader, Osinbajo’s candidacy would be acceptable to all citizens. “We have gathered here today to express our support for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for he is capable to lead the country to the Promised Land,” he noted. Also, the group’s publicity secretary, Mr Francis Ajayi, maintained that Osinbajo’s loyalty and patriotism had assisted him in his contributions to national policy.  Ajayi stressed that the vice president had contributed greatly to the “remarkable achievements” recorded so far by the present administration. The group, in a statement read out by a member, Mr Kola Kazeem, said: “We are happy that the vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, has declared his intention to run for president. He has decided to take the mantle of leadership from President Muhammadu Buhari. “We thank and commend our able president, Muhammadu Buhari, for giving Vice President Osinbajo the privilege to represent the country on foreign engagements. It is our belief that all these assignments have exposed our man, Professor Osinbajo, to national and international governance. “While he was the Attorney-General of Lagos State, Professor Osinbajo’s landmark achievements are incomparable and have placed Lagos ahead of other states in the country. This has no doubt assisted him in his office as the vice president of Nigeria.”