Former vice president and presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has told the national leadership of the party to give him the right of first refusal for the 2023 ticket. He met its National Working Committee (NWC) led by the national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, at the national secretariat in Abuja on Thursday to formally apprise it of his decision to seek the ticket in the next year’s presidential election. The 2019 flag bearer of the main opposition party affirmed that he already has 11 million votes in the kitty and therefore requested the PDP to give him the ticket. He described himself as the best candidate, noting that however since this is a democracy, all other aspirants should have the right to face the electorate for the ticket. Atiku admonished the NWC to pave the way for the emergence of the best candidate to lead the party to victory in the 2023 general election. The aspirant affirmed that if he becomes the president, he would work for the devolution of powers to the states and unify the country.  He said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has failed in comparative analysis with the PDP’s performance in government. More details to come later… IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military.