Former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande has faulted the nation’s educational system which he described as crude and responsible for the increasing rate of unemployment among youths in the country. Akande noted that there was need for the government and other stakeholders in the country to embrace deep science-based technological education for graduates to be able to compete favourably with their counterparts across the world and provide solutions to the problems confronting the nation. The pioneer chairman of the All Progressives Congress spoke at the Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti on Wednesday last week during the combined 25th and 26th convocation and 40th anniversary ceremonies of the university where he was conferred with an honorary doctorate in public administration. Also honoured were the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; House of Representatives member, Timehin Adelegbe and an entrepreneur, Olawale Jegede.  The speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye; human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, SAN; former president of NBA, Wole Olanipekun, (SAN), founder of BOVAS petroleum, Victoria Samson and others were given awards of recognition. Akande said: “Crude technology cannot engender and stimulate abundant productivity; the more intensive the sciences at the base of our technology, the more abundant are our productivity and the greater the quantum of the products that will be available for processing; storage, transportation, distribution, marketing and consumption. N CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “And the more are the hands and services that will be required for employment to carry out all these functions effectively. Lack of science-based technological education for the youths has been the basis for the huge unemployment rate among the youths as well as the mass poverty, a situation which our leaders, in recent times, are exploiting in misappropriating our commonwealth.” He commended the university for the honour bestowed on him, explained that the state-owned institution had in no small measure contributed to the development of the society, urging other ivory towers to do more in the aspect of research and innovations. He advised the Federal Government and other institutions owned by the government to desist from arbitrary creation of higher institutions of learning in the country without little or no consideration for well-researched economic and societal needs. “We must stop our government ministries/agencies and our rich trading shylocks from establishing ‘garbage-in’ and ‘garbage-out’ educational institutions without due research and consideration for the economic and societal needs. “Our universities and higher educational institutions must also be encouraged to structure research opportunities towards science-based school curricula that will enable their teachings to produce trainers of the grassroots and science-based technologists,” he said. The vice chancellor, Professor Edward Olanipekun, said Akande and other honourees had contributed in no small measure to the development of education in the country.