Osun State Governor, Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, has described the passing of the Alaafin of Oyo, His Royal Majesty, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, as shocking, saying it signifies the end of an era. Oyetola also commiserated with his Oyo State counterpart, Governor Seyi Makinde, and the entire Yoruba race over the demise of the late monarch. The Governor condoled the late royal father’s family, the government and the people of Oyo State over the unfortunate incident. He described Alaafin’s transition as a personal loss because, according to him, the late monarch was “a good friend of Osun who was always ready to identify with our government and celebrate our humble accomplishments and achievements.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, the governor said the late monarch was a strong believer in progressive ideals, and that he remained true to his convictions over the years until he breathed his last. Oyetola further described Iku Baba Yeye, as a humble and an amiable monarch despite his revered position, saying that the Yoruba race has lost a quintessential intellectual whose knowledge of and commitment to the cause of the Yoruba race were unrivalled.  The Governor said: “I received with sadness news of the transition of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. This is a huge loss to the entire Yoruba race and the country as a whole. “On behalf of the government and the good people of Osun, I commiserate with Governor Seyi Makinde, the royal family, subjects, friends and associates of the late traditional ruler. “Oba Adeyemi was a visionary and an exemplary leader whose 52-year reign brought tremendous attention, peace, stability and unprecedented development to the ancient Oyo town and its people. Baba was a strong believer in progressive ideals, and he remained true to his convictions over the years until he breathed his last. “He will be long remembered for his impacts, achievements, outstanding legacies and remarkable service as a custodian of the rich Yoruba cultural heritage and traditions. “I pray Allah to overlook his shortcomings and admit him to Al-Jannah Firdaus. May He also grant his immediate family, Governor Makinde and the entire people of Oyo State the fortitude to bear his loss.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Oyetola mourns Alaafin. Oyetola mourns Alaafin Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Oyetola mourns Alaafin  Oyetola mourns Alaafin