AHEAD next year’s general elections, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, have since notified the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) on dates for the conduct of their conventions. The APC is expected to hold its National Executive Committee meeting tomorrow (Wednesday) to ratify the timetable for the conduct of its presidential convention and other primaries. A source at the INEC told Nigerian Tribune in confidence that the APC, the PDP and eight others out of the 18 political parties expected to field candidates in the 2023 general election had since formally submitted dates for conduct of their presidential conventions. Eight others, including the Social Democratic Party, are yet to notify the electoral body on dates for their presidential conventions. The source told Nigerian Tribune that the APC would conduct its presidential convention between 30 and 31st May, 2022, while the PDP would conduct its presidential convention on May 29, 2022. The APC has fixed 23rd May and May 18 for governorship and senatorial primaries while its candidates for House of Representatives and House of Assembly would emerge on May 16 and May 11, 2022, respectively. For the main opposition party, according to the calendar sighted by the Nigerian Tribune, its governorship and senatorial seats will emerge on May 21 and May 14, respectively while primaries for the House of Assembly and House of Representatives will be conducted on May 7 and May 12, 2022, respectively.  The calendar also revealed that the Accord Party will produce its presidential candidate on June 2 while the presidential candidate of the Labour Party will emerge on June 3. Both the standard bearers for All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA and Zenith Labour Party will emerge on same date of June 1, 2022. Further investigation revealed that parties with no fixed dates for their presidential conventions include the Social Democratic Party, (SDP) Action Alliance, (AA) Action Democratic Party, (ADP) National Rescue Movement, (NRM) People’s Redemption Party (PRP) and the Young People’s Party, (YPP), African Democratic Congress and the Action People’s Party.