I must commend our leaders for approving a billion naira for the purchase of lie detector scanner and night vision glasses for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). It is a good decision, in fact a perfect way to eradicate insecurity among hungry and frustrated citizens, at a time when the students are deprived of education. The Federal Government (FG) is yet to meet the demands of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), which embarked on strike to demand the revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowances, University Transparency Accountability Solution and promotion arrears, renegotiation of the 2009 FGN-ASUU agreement and the inconsistencies in the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS). The government has not met the demands and has rather allowed students to sit at home because they don’t merit their demands; after all they are well remunerated like those in Senate who are never owed salaries and allowances. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Some lecturers earn N180 000 monthly (Lecturer I) while some aged senators, whose constituencies are filled with roads that can terminate pregnancies earn N13.5 million as running cost and N700 000 as monthly salary according to Senator Shehu Sani (2018). Indeed ASUU shouldn’t complain at all. Why has the government not blacklisted ASUU? At least, it can hire robots to teach students in online classes, let even medical and science students do their practical online so there wont be need to equip laboratories. I will conclude this with an allegory of our great father, late chief Obafemi Awolowo, “when you pour beans in a bowl of water, some would sink directly, some would float and sink after some seconds, while some would remain at the surface there”. My fellow students/youths, we have seen many contestants with various manifestos, there capabilities could be judged by their achievements or works. Once bitten, twice shy! Great Steph olurantiomosco@gmail.com