A 39-year-old man, Saheed Ogundahun, who is cooling his heels in detention at the Ogun State Police Command, has admitted mistake in killing a herdsman and burying him in the bush over an argument of grazing on his farm. The herdsman, Zanda Abu, was killed on March 12 after an altercation between him and the suspect. Ogundahun, a citizen of Republic of Benin resident in Nigeria reportedly shot the herdsman to death after sending him off his farm. The state Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, had, in a press briefing, said that one Alhaji Bature Umar reported at Ewekoro Division on March 13 that Abu left Afowowa area with some cows for grazing a day earlier and had yet to return. The complainant added that he got information that a gunshot was heard from the direction  Abu went for grazing, raising fears that something untoward must have happened to him. This, the police commissioner said, prompted the Divisional Police Officer in charge of the Division and his men to go into the bush in search of the missing man, but were unsuccessful. However, intelligence gathering led to the arrest of Ogundahun, and on interrogation, he confessed that he shot Abu to death and buried him in the bush. “He has taken policemen to where he buried the deceased and the corpse has been exhumed and taken to the General Hospital, Ifo mortuary for autopsy,” CP Bankole stated. Recovered from the suspect was a Dane gun used in killing the victim. Speaking with the Nigerian Tribune, Ogundahun, a farmer and labourer, narrated what transpired between him and the victim thus: “I went to farm that morning, came home at about 3pm to eat and went back again at about 5pm. “As I was going back,  I met a girl who me that there were some cows in my farm. On getting to the farm, I saw the man herding the cows to the farm and asked him to leave my farm but he refused, “After asking to leave three times, he brought out a cutlass. I asked him what he wanted to use the cutlass for, but was warned by someone not to move close to him as I might be injured. “Eventually, I forced him to leave the farm and as he left, he crossed to the other side of the road and waited there, threatening me to move close.  I did and he raised the cutlass, causing everyone around to move back. “I shot him on the head but I have realised that I made a mistake.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 