Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated the Nigerian business mogul and President, Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, on his 65th birthday, describing him as a renowned businessman, seasoned administrator, and philanthropist who had contributed immensely to the economy and livelihood of many Nigerians. Sanwo-Olu said the business magnate, who clocks 65 on Sunday, April 10, was doing a lot for the country by contributing to the growth of her economy and providing jobs and empowerment for millions of people, especially youths in different parts of the country, adding that Dangote was a blessing to his generation. The governor said this on Sunday in his goodwill message issued by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr Gboyega Akosile, as he acknowledged Alhaji Dangote’s contribution to the economy of Nigeria through his various manufacturing companies in different parts of the country, especially the Dangote Fertiliser Plant and the Dangote Refinery in Lekki, Lagos. “On behalf of my wife, Ibijoke, Lagos State government, and the good people of Lagos State, I join family, friends and business associates to congratulate you (Alhaji Aliko Dangote) on your 65th birthday celebration. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “You are a blessing to your generation considering how God has been using you to put smiles on the faces of many Nigerians working in your companies. You are an employer of labour and a respected business magnate who is contributing positively to the economy of Nigeria. “Lagos is happy to associate with you because of the tremendous work you are doing in our state by setting up two of your major companies – Dangote Fertilizer Plant and Dangote Refinery – that have provided job opportunities for thousands of Lagosians,” the governor said. “We want to thank God for the grace upon your life and for using your business acumen and philanthropic gestures for good cause in our society. “I wish you all the very best on your 65th birthday. I pray that God will grant you long life and sound health for you to continue to contribute to humanity,” he added. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Sanwo-Olu hails Dangote at 65 Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Sanwo-Olu hails Dangote at 65