A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, on Sunday, maintained that what the country needs now is somebody who can turn around the economy of the country and not consensus candidate Obi, who stated at a meeting with PDP delegates in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said Nigerians should preoccupy themselves with electing a president that is capable of pulling the nation out of poverty. “Nigerians want consensus on who will solve the problem of Nigeria; somebody who can move this country from consumption to production. We are talking of somebody who will do the work and not somebody. “We are not talking of who will be the next president of the country, but who will start working for this country called Nigeria. Nigerians do not need a consensus candidate but a problem solver that can fix Nigeria. “Nigerians are looking forward to having somebody capable of making the nation productive and pulling the country out of poverty,” he said. Lamenting the spate of killings, kidnappings, banditry and level of poverty  in the country, he noted that Nigerians are suffering and the need for an urgent solution to save the situation.  He said: “Nigeria is its darkest days. The country is collapsing and the only thing we are hearing is kidnapping, banditry poverty. Schools are shut down, killings everywhere and this is the cumulative effect of the bad leadership. “Our economy has crumbled and we keep borrowing without investing; borrowing for consumption without investing a dime. Our debt is growing and nothing to show for it. “Nigerians are looking forward to somebody that can make Nigeria productive and start getting Nigerians to be pulled out of poverty. “Look at our roads, the Akure /Ekiti road is there and they claimed they are borrowing for infrastructure. With just N5b, the road will be fixed, but all these money they are borrowing is for consumption. The only thing you hear is sharing formula not production formula.” “The first of our problem is the economy, the second is the economy and the third is economy. Anybody who can get the economy of Nigeria right is the right person for the present job and all we need is the best and right person for now.” He, however, said PDP is blessed with men who can work and change the fortunes of the country and rescue it from its present predicament. “PDP has array of candidates who are qualified and competent and everything. We have arrays of stars contesting on PDP platform. They will perform outstandingly than President Muhammadu Buhari and any of the  APC candidate. “People will give you money, take it, but when you want to vote think of the future of your children. Now is the time to take the step, if we don’t take the step now, it will consume all of us,” he added.