A presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Peter Obi, on Tuesday, tasked Nigerians to make an informed decision in the 2023 general election that will throw up a president with the capacity to fix the nation’s challenges. Obi made this call when he met with stakeholders of the Oyo state chapter of the PDP at the party secretariat, Ibadan. Obi, accompanied by his Special Adviser, Tony Obinujwu, and a former presidential aide, Dr Doyin Okupe, was received by stakeholders of the Oyo PDP led by the party chairman, Dayo Ogungbenro. Speaking, Obi said members of the PDP and Nigerians, at large, must be guided by the need to take decisions that will engender a better society for themselves and their children. The former governor noted the people are critical if any society is to work. Pointing to his strides as governor of Anambra State, Obi said he had the experience, focus, integrity, tested resource management skills, contentment to build stronger institutions in Nigeria.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Speaking on the inability of the presidential aspirants from the Southern Region of Nigeria to reach consensus on one or two aspirants, Obi said what is imperative is for Nigerians to keenly study the background of the aspirants and decide who they are going to support. Obi said: “All I have come here to do is to introduce myself to you in Oyo State, I have told you my background. If anybody gives you money, take it. It doesn’t matter. It might be our personal money and it may not be. The truth is that everybody needs money now. If you want to buy bread, a loaf is now N500, and you must get two. Everybody is expectant now. There is no problem. “But I beg you, make an informed decision, such that you will be able to say these my children can live in a better society by doing this.” “On the issue of consensus, let me be honest with you, in the north, there is no consensus. The aspirants from the north are 12. In America, 30 people contested the election. “In the South, how many? We are barely about eight. So, what is good is listen to the eight of us, check the backgrounds of the eight of us, and decide who you are going to support.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 2023: Make informed decision in interest of yourselves, your children ― Peter Obi Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 2023: Make informed decision in interest of yourselves, your children ― Peter Obi