Barely one week after the Bauchi State House of Assembly passed a resolution directing the State government to immediately take action to make fire fighting a priority, particularly in Azare and the entire Katagum zone of the state, Governor Sen Bala Abdulkadir Muhammad has responded assuring that his administration will soon establish a well equipped modern fire station in Azare which will effectively and adequately cover the entire Northern zone of the state. The Governor reacted to the development when he hosted stakeholders from Katagum zone to a Ramadan fasting break at the Government House Sunday evening. He said that he had already sent a proposal to that effect to the State House of Assembly for approval of urgent need for the establishment of an Emergency Services Institution which will take care of the procurement of modern fire fighting equipment. According to the Governor, Bauchi State just other states in the country is facing dearth of modern fire fighting equipment most especially vehicles stressing that even in Bauchi metropolis the fire fighting vehicles being used belong to federal government. He however assured that very soon the problem will be a thing of the past considering the useful consultations with stakeholders in the sector within and outside of the state and Nigeria. While commending people of Katagum zone particularly Azare metropolis which is the headquarters of the zone, Bala Mohammed said that being the gateway to the Bauchi State, his administration has earmarked the sum of N300m to upgrade electricity supply as well as provide streetlights in order to make the town brightly lite as well as ensure security of lives and properties of the residents. The Governor revealed that work has begun on the construction of Sani Abatcha road in Azare adding that very soon, work will commence on Gamɓaki road as well as the construction of a modern school at Doguwa in Giyaɗe LGA . He said that in spite of the paucity of funds, and the negative criticisms of the opposition in the state, his administration will not be discouraged in ensuring that it provided dividends of democracy to every segment of the state particularly at the Grassroot where majority of the electorate are based. While commending leadership of the elders of the area, Bala Muhammad uses the medium to call on people of Azare to open their eyes in order to recognize the bad eggs amongst themselves. He stressed the need for government properties and installations to be adequately protected particularly the brand new modern fire fighting vehicles that will be provided very soon saying that it is the responsibility of all to ensure adequate safety of such for the benefit of the general public. The stakeholders included PDP leadership from the zone, political appointees, elected officials particularly members of the National and State Assembly as well as other dignitaries. All of those who spoke at the occasion commended the Governor and his administration for the provision of social services in the area as well as carrying them along in the day to day running of government affairs. They then assured him that the entire people of the area will continue to support his administration and remain loyal to the PDP no matter the temptation in order to move the state forward positively better than the PDP met it in 2019. It will be recalled that disturbed by rampant fire disaster incidences across the state which have claimed innocent lives while valuables worth several billion of Naira have been lost, Bauchi State House of Assembly resolved to remove the Fire Service department from the Ministry of Works and Transport to the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) which is under the office of the Executive Governor for quick response.