Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has identified peace as the fulcrum of development, assuring that if such value prevails, he would transform the state into the Dubai of Africa in his ongoing ‘completion agenda’. This was the crux of the governor’s Easter message to the people broadcast state-wide on Sunday, charging the people to remain steadfast in love, peace and brotherliness as the election season inches closer. He said: “A state that was once defined as a purely civil service-oriented entity, today, is being hailed nationally as Nigeria’s best-kept secret. We have shown the world that when the passion is right, great and enduring things can also happen. “Last week, I remember seeing a picture of Dubai that was taken, in 1985. It had a very prominent picture of an imposing skyscraper, the Toyota Building. It was the only major high-rise building that stood out on the skyline of Dubai then. Below the building, were smatterings of other normal buildings.  Fast-forward to 2016, another picture of the same location was published side by side, and in 2016, the picture showed a sprawling megapolis, dotted with glittering skyscrapers and wide boulevards. The Toyota building which in 1985, was the tallest, looked like a tiny dot in an emerging modern smart city that Dubai has become today. My take-away from that picture is that the development and growth of people, entities, organisations, etc., are products of foresight, passion, dedication, and deep and abiding love for the people. “In the last seven years, we have laid a foundation of growth and development that would, like Dubai, was in 1985, blossom in the next few years into a fast industrialising and glittering state where the people’s aspirations would be met; wherefrom land, air and sea, our state would be the cynosure of all eyes, where the economy would be private-sector driven, where our youths would be engaged, where the brightest and the best among us would enjoy incredible opportunities for growth and fulfilment. “This is the way modern societies that we travel to, and love, were grown and established. That is what I am doing for our people and posterity will remember and celebrate us for seizing the moment. “The signs are there for even our critics to see. Is it in aviation development? I am sure, my dear people have seen the glittering, international terminal at the Victor Attah International Airport, which upon completion, would be the best of such in our nation and indeed Africa. I am sure you have also seen our Maintain, Repair and Overhaul (MRO,), which can take four Boeing 737 and four  Airbuses A320 aircraft, and indeed all the aircraft in our fleet, a gigantic project which is almost 85 per cent ready, and is expected to be commissioned soon. “Is it the world-class Taxiway, which can land a Boeing 747 which is also to be commissioned soon? Is it Ibom Air, which has become a point for excellence in the Nigerian aviation industry? My fellow Akwaibomites, we are laying a solid foundation for an emerging industrial Tiger that Akwa Ibom is poised to become. “As you leave the airport, I am sure you have seen the expansion of the road to an 8-lane boulevard. All over the world, the heart and character of a city are defined and shaped by what people see as they enter the city centre. The 8-lane road from the airport leads into the city centre where visitors will be greeted by another 10-lane ring road three, which promises to be one of the best boulevards in the nation. Even our naysayers have acknowledged the beauty of this road.” He, therefore, charged the people not to be caught in the frenzy of politics to embrace violence but to remain a willing partner in the progress and development of the state. “As the political season dawns, I urge our political stakeholders across the political divide to eschew hatred, anger and violence. I urge them to understand that politics will come and politics will go, but the spirit of the Akwa Ibom Enterprise will endure and continue to flourish,” he stressed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Emmanuel preaches peace  Emmanuel preaches peace Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Emmanuel preaches peace Emmanuel preaches peace