TeamApt, one of Nigeria’s leading Fintechs has relaunched its product, Moniepoint, as a full-service business bank. Since 2019, Moniepoint has enabled 162,000 small business owners to process over a billion transactions worth 23 trillion naira. While solving the payment problem, they realised many of Nigeria’s 41 million small businesses struggle with managing operations, taxes, insurance, and staff welfare. To solve for that and power the dreams of SMEs, Moniepoint has evolved into a full-service business bank. It was revealed during the product launch that in addition to their payments solution, this expansion of Moniepoint enables Nigerians to grow their business with access to quick loans, manage operations, payroll, and staff welfare, and protect the business with affordable premiums.  “Small businesses are referred to as the bedrock of the economy for a reason. SMEs employ 84 per cent of the country’s entire workforce and contribute 48 per cent to Nigeria’s GDP. Their success is critical to the economic progress of the nation. “As Nigerians, we feel the challenges of the economy acutely, in real-time. This is why we have worked hard to evolve into a business bank that truly works for the everyday Nigerian business owner. Moniepoint in addition to being a tech-enabled all-in-one business solution is also able to provide much needed last-mile service delivery. This is in line with our mission to power the business dreams of Africa’s real economy, and provide financial happiness to all,” said TeamApt founder and CEO, Tosin Eniolorunda. “Moniepoint has become everything to me. It has brought me actual freedom. Since using the service, I have transformed the lives of many,” says Abubakar Ibrahim, a businessman using Moniepoint. Fully licensed by NDIC, PCIDSS certified, TeamApt’s full-service business bank, Moniepoint is poised to empower Nigerians to manage, protect, and grow their businesses. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.