A chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Moshood Salvador, on Sunday, cautioned Nigerians against voting for hypocrites and those with shady characters, who seek their votes, in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. Salvador made the call during the annual Ramadan Lecture/Zakat event, which took place at Salvador Towers in Lagos. The politician, who is the former Chairman of the leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, decried the rising poverty and hardship in the land, saying politicians were not concerned about the wellbeing of the people hence the increasing hardship. Salvador, who blamed the pervasive poverty in the land on the increasing cost of food items, noted that diesel which hitherto sold for N187 per litre and now going for N700 per litre, saying there was no way the masses would not feel the impact.  This was just as he pointed out that Nigeria was too richly endowed to cater for her citizens, with nobody expected to suffer poverty and hardship but lamented that the politicians had not benefitted the masses. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE As the 2023 election approaches, the APC leader enjoined his followers and the electorate to think twice before voting anybody that presented themselves to seek their vote. According to him, voting hypocrites and people of shady character would be tantamount to mortgaging their future and misusing the opportunity to make Nigeria a better place. “This country is not where people should be suffering because we have resources in abundance. The lack of fear of God by our leaders is the cause of the problems facing the country. “Don’t allow politicians who would give you peanut, asking you to vote for them, if you do so, the repercussions would be on your future and that of your children,” he warned. Salvador declared that he would rather quit the politics than be part of a system that would pauperise the citizens, just as he reiterated that Nigerians had the opportunity to make the country great again by voting for credible candidates. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 2023: Reject voting people of shady characters, Salvador tells Nigerians Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 2023: Reject voting people of shady characters, Salvador tells Nigerians