A human rights and development organisation in Kwara State, Civil Rights and Development Resource Centre, has criticised the resolution of the state House of Assembly on the appointment of Hajia Halimat Kperogi as the clerk of the House for another one year. It is recalled that the state House of Assembly, in its sitting on March 30, 2022, confirmed the appointment of the retired Hajia Jummai Halimat Kperogi for a one-year term contract as the clerk of the House. In a statement by the executive director and head, the Conflict Management Directorate of the organization, Barrister Luqman Shaffii and Barrister L. A. Oladimeji, respectively, the group said that the candidature of Hajia Kperogi was allegedly imposed on the House members by the Speaker of the House. The group, which said that the contract appointment of the clerk had earlier been approved for a period of six months which terminated on March 29, described the appointment as illegal. “The Centre is not unaware of the recent resolution in the Kwara State House of Assembly in its sitting of March 30, 2022, in which an unlawful confirmation the appointment of one Hajia Jummai Halimat Kperogi was made for a one-year term contract as the clerk of the House.  “We were aware that the contract appointment had earlier been approved for a period of six months which terminated on March 29. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is on record that the candidature of the Hajia Jummai Halimat Kperogi was imposed on the House members by the Honourable Speaker of the House. We hereby wish to state categorically that both the initial and the present ratifications of the unlawful contract appointments are primarily illegal. “The provision of the Kwara State House of Assembly Service Commission Law 2018, as amended is expressly unambiguous as can be found in section 9 of the Law that only a director in the grade level 17 can be appointed as Clerk of the House and neither a contract staff nor a retiree is fit for the appointment. “In the circumstance, we wish to advise the Honourable House to:
Relief Hajia Jummai Halimat Kperogi of the unlawful appointment as the clerk of the House and ask her to proceed with her retirement immediately in line with the Civil Service Rule. “Convey sitting, make resolution to appoint any qualified level 17 officer within the Commission.
In the absence of any qualified or non-suitable officer within the commission, the House can seek the transfer or secondment of qualified personnel in any other government office accordingly. “We hereby advise the House (Kwara State House of Assembly) to contact the State Ministry of Justice for necessary Legal Advice. “CIRDEV hereby advise the House of Assembly to do the needful as a matter of urgency as the Centre would not hesitate to take necessary legal action on the matter.”