Experts in the education sector in the country have said easy access to digital tools and resources by school girls can significantly boost their interest in the study of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)-related courses. The experts, who included the Deputy Director, Research and External Linkages, Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ijebu-Ode, Dr Adefunke Ekine; founder of She Code Africa (a non-profit making organization), Ada Nduka Oyom and Judith Okonkwo, a technology expert, made this assertion at the March edition of EdTech Mondays, an initiative of the Mastercard Foundation in partnership with Co-Creation Hub in Lagos. Speaking at the virtual event with a theme, “Celebrating African Women in Education and Technology,” Ekine decried the low enrolment of young girls compared with their male counterparts particularly in engineering and technology-related courses, attributing the development to their lack of having direct access to digital tools such as video and resources. She noted that the problem is compounded by the abysmal quality of teaching in some foundational subjects such as Mathematics, adding that teaching in Nigeria is more abstract than functional. The don, therefore, said there is the need for teachers to adopt a storytelling approach using technology to elicit interest in the girl-child participation in STEM-related courses. In their own separate contributions, both Oyom and Judith noted that young girls on their part must be optimistic that anything is achievable if they set their minds to achieve it. But even at that, they said the stakeholders in both public and private sectors would need to support the girls with digital tools and resources that would spur their interest in STEM education and expose them to other opportunities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.