Chrisland University, Abeokuta, has received a certificate of recognition from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) for the award of bachelor’s degree in accounting to students of the university who may also be willing to sit for ICAN examinations even while still in school. The university received the certificate on Thursday at the ICAN office in Lagos alongside about 29 other educational institutions spread across the country. The Vice-Chancellor of Chirsland University, Prof Chinedum Babalola, made this known in a statement made available by the university’s spokesman, Ayo Arowojolu, on Saturday. She said the approval would give students of the school opportunities to obtain a first degree in accounting and also ICAN certification at the same time if successful in both exams. She said the school on its part could also run top-up degree programmes for the non-degree holders ICAN members. Prof Babalola, who spoke on behalf of all the recipient institutions at the forum, appreciated ICAN for recognising the various institutions across the country running the programme.  She also thanked the institute for donating relevant textbooks to them, saying the materials would go a long way in the teaching and learning process in the various schools. In her own remark at the event, the President of ICAN, Mrs Comfort Eyitayo, said the essence of giving the approval to many tertiary institutions and other educational centres is to train and groom many more proficient professionals in the field of accounting particularly among the youths. She added that ICAN believes that all its members would certainly adhere to global best practices guiding the profession anywhere they are. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.