MORE revelations have emerged on the last few days of the late monarch, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, Alaafin of Oyo, during which he regaled loved ones with tales of death. According to Dr Festus Adedayo, who is acknowledged in the palace as one of Alaafin’s adopted sons, the late Oba was all about death during his last visit to him in the palace. Adedayo recalled that during that visit on March 2, Alaafin revealed to him that he had already prepared the place he would be buried, disclosing further that he had even informed the Oyomesi, (the kingmakers), about how he wished to be buried. Sources from the palace also claimed that Oba Adeyemi told some people he had been seeing his deceased mother in his dreams. One of them who spoke to Sunday Tribune said they did not know that “Iku Baba Yeye was actually giving them a hint” of his impending transition. In a related development, a video obtained by an online platform, FrankTalk, quoted a lady who described herself as one of the daughters of Alaafin, that the late Oba had a premonition of his death. According to her, “Two weeks ago, he called and told us that his late father called him to come. We were afraid and asked if truly he saw his father.” How Oba Adeyemi died, buried  On the course of his death, the prominent traditional ruler died of malaria at Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Ekiti State, in the early hours of Saturday. Oba Adeyemi was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday after complaining of malaria. Series of tests were carried out on him and relevant drugs and injections were administered. It was gathered that there were plans to fly him abroad for proper medical treatment, but he was said to have been transferred to ABUAD on the instruction of Chief Afe Babalola, who advised that he could be taken care of at the hospital. Speaking on Alaafin’s death, the Basorun of Oyoland and head of group of kingmakers, High Chief Yusuf Akinade Ayoola, stated in an interview that Kabiyesi was already recuperating and set to be discharged from the hospital before his medical condition relapsed. It was learnt that the respected monarch was said to have instructed some of his Oloris who were with him at the hospital to get ready, as he would soon be discharged from the hospital. According to Chief Ayoola, Alaafin told the medical consultants, “Come and discharge me. I want to go home.” Sunday Tribune also gathered that he ate watermelon and was in a lively mood, throwing banters and sharing jokes at the hospital. While the palace was said to be awaiting Oba Adeyemi’s arrival, his condition relapsed and he eventually gave up the ghost. The Islamic rites It was reliably gathered that Kabiyesi had instructed his people to bury him immediately he joined his ancestors. To this effect, Islamic rites earlier scheduled for 4.00 pm was held at 12.00 noon, on Saturday. The remains of Oba Adeyemi were brought out for prayers in a white casket, led by the Chief Imam of Oyo, Alhaji Moshood Ajokideru, held in front of the popular Oba Adeyemi Hall. The prayers lasted for three minutes, after which his remains were taken back inside the hall. It was gathered that the traditional rites later began at 9.00 pm at a yet-to-be-disclosed location, while his remains will be interred at Bara, a traditional burial place for Oyo traditional rulers. His reign promoted values of peace, stability —Buhari Prominent Nigerians on Saturday mourned the demise of the Alaafin, who reigned for 53 years on the throne. Leading the tributes, President Muhammadu Buhari condoled with the government and people of Oyo State over the passing of the Alaafin whose reign, according to him covered major historic transitions in the country, and witnessed transformations in his domain. In a statement by Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity), Femi Adesina, the president affirmed that the Alaafin of Oyo’s rule was remarkable in many ways, most significant was the emphasis he placed on human development, thereby encouraging learning as a culture and formal education as a necessity while promoting values of peace and stability. Yoruba race, Oyo has lost a great ruler, a worthy father —Makinde In his condolence message, Oyo State governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, described the death of Alaafin of Oyo as a huge loss to the state, Nigeria and the Yoruba race. The governor, who described Oba Adeyemi’s death as a personal loss to him, noted that he was an ever supportive royal father and a worthy leader, who spared nothing in trying to make Oyo State and Nigeria greater. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as saying that Kabiyesi’s words of advice and guidance were always golden and helpful. The statement indicated that the governor expressed his condolences to the Oyo State Traditional Council, the Oyomesi, Oba Adeyemi’s immediate family, the people of Oyo Kingdom and the entire Yoruba race, praying to God to grant repose to the soul of the departed monarch. The governor, who stated that apart from Oyo State losing its last man standing in the rank of experienced monarchs with long years of royal leadership, it has also lost a royal institution and an authority, which Alaafin Olayiwola Adeyemi III had become by virtue of his high-octane understanding of Yoruba history, politics and national development. Alaafin’s passing, a great loss to Nigeria —Sanwo-Olu Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Saturday mourned the passing of the Alaafin of Oyo, who passed away early Saturday morning at the age of 83, describing the death of the foremost monarch as a great loss to the people of Oyo town, the traditional institution in Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole. Governor Sanwo-Olu said this in reaction to the news of the death of Alaafin, even as he commiserated with the Governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, the people of the ancient town of Oyo and the entire Yoruba both home and in the diaspora over the demise of the first class traditional ruler. Sanwo-Olu in a condolence message issued on Saturday by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said the late monarch’s service to the people of the ancient town, Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole, especially in the area of promotion of Yoruba culture and tradition will remain his enduring legacy. The governor also condoled with millions of Yoruba sons and daughters at home and in the diaspora as the Alaafin of Oyo joined his ancestors. A big Iroko has fallen —Tinubu A former governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu described Oba Adeyemi as one of the most influential, greatly respected traditional rulers in Yorubaland, Nigeria and indeed Africa and beyond, saying he was deeply saddened by the transition of the royal father. According to him, after ascending to the royal throne at the age of 31, “Alaafin became one of the Alaafin fostered harmony and brought prosperity and development to the ancient Oyo Kingdom. He was loved by his people. “He played vital roles in the struggle for democracy, working assiduously towards the establishment of our democracy”. He described Alaafin as a strong pillar of the arts, culture and tradition, who too upon himself the task of promoting Nigerian arts and culture for which he received many ambassadorial awards in Nigeria and beyond. Atiku mourns, says Oba Adeyemi was a worthy ambassador of Yoruba culture Former Vice President of Nigeria Atiku Abubakar also reacted to the news of the passing away of Alaafin of Oyo, saying it was a great loss for Nigeria and Africa culture at large. Atiku, in a press release by his media office on Saturday, said that the late Oba Adeyemi was a worthy ambassador of Yoruba culture and royal elegance. The former Vice President recalled that his last encounter with Oba Adeyemi was in Ibadan during the  coronation of Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Lekan Balogun. “I admired the royal splendour of Oba Adeyemi and the fact that he remains the longest serving Alaafin means that Oyo and indeed Nigerians will not forget his reign,” the Waziri of Adamawa said. Alaafin’s transition signifies end of an era —Oyetola Osun State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, paid tribute to Alaafin of Oyo, describing the passing of Oba Adeyemi as shocking, saying it signified the end of an era. Oyetola also commiserated with his Oyo State counterpart, Governor Seyi Makinde, and the entire Yoruba race over the demise of the late monarch. The governor condoled the late royal father’s family, the government and people of Oyo State over the unfortunate incident. He described Alaafin’s transition as a personal loss because, according to him, the late monarch was “a good friend of Osun who was always ready to identify with our government and celebrate our humble accomplishments and achievements.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, the governor said the late monarch was a strong believer in progressive ideals, and that he remained true to his convictions over the years until he breathed his last. Oyetola further described Iku Baba Yeye, as a humble and an amiable monarch despite his revered position, saying that the Yoruba race has lost a quintessential intellectual whose knowledge of and commitment to the cause of Yoruba race were unrivalled. His death will create a vacuum in Yorubaland —Abiodun Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has mourned the passing of late Oba Adeyemi who joined his ancestors on Friday. Governor Abiodun, in a statement on Saturday, described the monarch’s death as tragic and occurred when least expected. “I commiserate with the Oyomesi, the wives and children of the late monarch and the entire Adeyemi family over this irreplaceable loss. I pray for their comfort and peace at the trying times. “It is unfortunate that kabiyesi had to take his leave of us, at this period, when we need his wisdom the most, as we approach the 2023 general elections, a critical period in our political landmarks.” Governor Abiodun noted that Alaafin’s death will create a huge vacuum in the entire Yorubaland, while his sagacious and royal counsel will be sorely missed. His reign was remarkable for peace, development —Okowa Delta State governor, Senator (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, has commiserated with Governor Makinde, the government and people of Oyo State over the passing of the Alaafin of Oyo. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, the governor noted that the late octogenarian monarch was an influential leader who was committed to the development of his kingdom and beyond. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I commiserate with the government and people of Oyo State, the immediate family of the Alaafin, the Oyo Mesi as well as the Oyo State Traditional Council over the passing of Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. End of an era —Olubadan The death of Oba Adeyemi has been described as the end of a remarkable and glorious era by the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balo- gun Alli. This was contained in a statement personally signed by the monarch and made available to the media on Saturday, following the announcement of the death of the Oyo monarch in the early hours of Saturday. Oba Balogun, who expressed shock at the news of the death of the Oyo monarch recalled that the last time the two met was at his (Balogun) coronation/installation last month in Ibadan. Olubadan described the late Alaafin as a royal father per excellence, who projected Yoruba culture and civilisation with awe and dignity, noting that with his exit, Yoruba has lost a rare gem. “A highly scholarly, pragmatic and dynamic monarch with undiluted love for his race and people, Alaafin would be sorely missed by humanity for his contributions which would continue to speak for him eternally.” Alaafin’s death has created a big vacuum —Aare Onikoyi of Yoruba Land The Aare Onikoyi of Yoruba land, Aare Tomori Williams, has described the death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, as a great loss to the entire Yoruba race. The highly revered traditional ruler, he stated, would be greatly missed for his patriotism and forthrightness. Aare Williams said, “The death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi came to me as a great shock. In fact, I am still in a state of shock. It was not that we held that Baba would forever live but it is because we knew his worth. We knew what he represented in the traditional Yoruba setting. I would have loved him to live longer but then when death calls, no one can stop it. It’s a big shock to every one of us. Baba would be missed for his forthrightness. He would be greatly missed for his relevance and contributions to both the traditional and political institutions of the country. His level of patriotism to the Yoruba race and Nigeria was unparalleled. He lived his life to extend frontiers of Yoruba culture —Oyinlola In his condolence message, former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola described the transition of the Alaafin of Oyo as the end of an era in Yorubaland. Prince Oyinlola in a statement on Saturday described the late Oba as a true son of Oduduwa who lived his entire life to extend the frontiers of Yoruba culture and interest within the Nigerian federation. He said the late oba embodied the very best in institutional obaship comportment, decency and brilliance. Oyinlola, who described Oba Adeyemi as a father recalled the tremendous support the Alaafin gave him while he was governor in Osun State as well as during his years in Lagos as military administrator.  I’m saddened over Alaafin’s death —Gbajabiamila The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, in his tribute described the passing away of the monarch as a sad development that touched him personally. Gbajabiamila said the death of the paramount Yoruba ruler came to him as a rude shock, describing the late Alaafin, who had been like a father to him, as a very intelligent father with a sound grasp of traditional, social, political and international history. According to him, Oba Adeyemi was a man of peace whose five decades of quality leadership to his people endeared him to the masses. Speaker Gbajabiamila, who was recently appointed the Aare Baasofin of Yoruba Land by the late Alaafin, said the death of the traditional ruler has created a void too difficult to fill.  Oba Adeyemi’s death marks end of another era —Emir Sulu-Gambari Emir of Ilorin and Chairman Kwara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Ibrahim SuluGambari CFR, has described the demise of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi as a colossal loss to traditional institution in the nation. In a statement by the monarch on Saturday, Alhaji SuluGambari noted that the 51 years reign of Oba Adeyemi III witnessed a tremendous display of royalty, excellence, peaceful and harmony among inhabitants of the ancient town of Oyo and Oyo State in general. “Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi’s death marks the end of another era. Thee world will surely miss the exit of a bridge-builder”, he said.  He was a great encyclopedia of Yoruba history —Tola Adeniyi In his tribute, Chairman, Yoruba Global Alliance, Chief Tola Adeniyi said the council received the death of Alaafin with shock, saying the saddening news of the royal passage of the monarch “hit us like high voltage thunderbolt; it is totally unexpected and unanticipated” He described Oba Adeyemi as a veritable inspirer and an inspiration to Yoruba self-consciousness, saying “he was a towering pillar of support and great defender of our spiritual faith. He believed in the avowed rightness of the Yoruba Self-Determination agenda the same way he believed in the freedom of all peoples the world over to determine and choose the way they want to be governed.  Yoruba has lost a big personality —Balogun Senator Kola Balogun has described the demise of the Alaafin as the passage of a key traditional icon in Yorubaland. Senator Balogun, who represents Oyo South Senatorial District, said though the late Alaafin of Oyo lived up to a good old age, the news of his passage was shocking and devastating. Balogun said, with the demise of Oba Lamidi Adeyemi , the entire Yoruba Nation has lost a big personae in its rich culture and tradition. “The news of the passage of our referred traditional ruler, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, was as shocking as it was devastating.  We lost custodian of Yoruba culture, history —Alli A former secretary to the Oyo state government, Ako- gun Sharafadeen Alli on Sat- urday described the late Oba Adeyemi as Yoruba history encyclopedia and custodian of Yoruba cultural heritage. Alli in a statement he personally signed in Ibadan said the death of the monarch was received with rude shock. According to the governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the death of Alaafin is coming at a time Oyo state needs his wealth of experience to reshape political and economic activities in the state. He condoled with the family of Alaafin, the entire people of Oyo town and the Yoruba descendants in Nigeria and abroad.  Alaafin’s death a national tragedy —Gani Adams Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, has reacted to the death of foremost Yoruba monarch, describing it as a national tragedy, but also a colossal and personal loss to him, pointing out that the late Kabiesi lived a worthy life all through his reign. Iba Adams said this on Saturday in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media Kehinde Aderemi, which he signed personally, expressing shock over the news of the passing of the monarch, stating that Nigeria, Yoruba race and the ancient town of Oyo had loss a great monarch, whose life was a true reflection of complete Yoruba monarch. According to the Yoruba generalissimo, passing of Alaafin has brought an end to a chapter in the annals of the country›s history, even as he further described the foremost monarch as a repository of history and knowledge. “Kabiesi’s death is surely a national tragedy, it is a personal loss to me and it ended a chapter in the annals of this country. The Yoruba has loss a true and revered monarch and a repository of history and knowledge. A sudden cloud has overwhelmed the entire Yoruba land and we can hardly forget the roles of Alaafin as the top Yoruba monarch in a hurry,” Iba Adams stated.  His death, end of an era —Oluwo Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi on Saturday described the death of Oba Adeyemi as a monumental loss to the traditional institution. The monarch of made this known in a statement in Osogbo said,”his vacuum is most likely irreplaceable. His death is no doubt the end of an era. He was a force and a true, responsible father to the Yoruba nation”. According to him, “I visited Baba Alaafin last week when my mind got attracted to him. We had private jolly talks. We were both happy and joyous as I drank from his wealth of history. “At our meeting, we scheduled an event for early next month (May) here in Osun State. As God would have it, I got the news of his demise this morning. But who dare question God?”  Honour late Alaafin with national monument, Oke-Ogun Obas urge FG The Conference of OkeOgun Obas and Chiefs has commiserated with the immediate family of late Alaafin and the rest of the Oyo kingdom over the death of the revered monarch. In a statement, Chairman of the Conference, Oba Abdul- ganiy Adekunle the body said the loss of Oba Adeyemi was not only of the Yoruba people, but Africa in its entirety. The statement called on the Nigerian government to start the process of honoring Oba Adeyemi with a national monument as they said he was a pivotal point in efforts at sustaining Africa, Yoruba tradition and culture. The statement read, “Our father is gone, we are in mourning mood, it is time to look ahead and work better on those things he spent the greater part of his life to build and maintain in terms of African and Yoruba culture and tradition. “He was an encyclopedia of African history and culture especially, that of the Yorubas. He was history and culture personified. “Our governments should start the process of honoring him with a national monument. He deserved it towards when alive.”  The reservoir of Yoruba history is gone —Buhari The death of Alaafin has been described as a colossal loss to Yoruba race across the globe. The Senator representing Oyo North and leading Governorship Aspirant under the platform of All Progressives Congress, APC, Dr. Buhari Abdulfatai gave this description in a condolence message to the family of Oba Adeyemi made available to Journalists in the early hours of today. The lawmaker said “the death of Kabiesi Alaafin was a very torching and painful experience to numerous people in Nigeria.” According to him, the 51 years reigns of the prominent Yoruba Oba, Kabiesi Adeyemi did not only witness development of Oyo Kingdom but the entire Yorubaland and people of Yoruba race. “He was an Oba whom God bestowed on, His wisdom and guidance for unique traditional institutions in every nook and cranny of the world especially where Yorubas are found,” Senator Buhari hinted. The Legislator added “a minute spent with Alaafin while alive was like a hundred years full of lessons. You’ll surely gain a lot whenever you’re with Kaabiesi”. He declared that Oba Adeyemi’s accommodation and strategies put up to foster peaceful coexistence of his people and people of other tribes remain unique and it has helped in the adequate security of lives and properties in Oyo township. “We have lost a reservoir of knowledge of Yoruba Culture, Tradition and History but in every situation and circumstances, there is always a cause to thank God.” “Kabiesi Adeyemi died as an achiever and he will surely be remembered for the unforgettable roles towards the building of not only his subjects but the generality of humanity across the world,” Senator Buhari expressed. The legislator condoled with the immediate family of Oba Adeyemi; the wives, children and siblings as he prayed onto God to give them fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. Senator Buhari prayed for the soul of Oba Adeyemi to rest in peace and that God shall forgive all his shortcomings grant onto him Aljannat Firdaous on the day of accountability