I have been having problems with my teeth for the past few weeks to the extent that I can only eat with one side of my teeth. In addition, I always feel a lot of pain anytime I drink very cold water. I have tried a lot of painkillers and antibiotics without any improvement. Kindly let me know what else to do.  From your presentation, it is obvious that the nerve endings of your teeth have been exposed either through vigorous tooth brushing or the excessive use of tooth picks. In addition, secondary infection cannot be ruled out. In view of this, you will need to visit a dentist who will thoroughly examine you and prescribe the appropriate medications for you. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector