President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo have condoled with the family of late Pa Mathias Keyamo, father of the Minister of State Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN). Buhari’s condolence message was delivered on Saturday on his behalf by the Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari at the funeral rites of the octogenarian in Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta. Gambari said: “President Buhari has personally asked me to convey his condolences to the entire Keyamo family. “Condolences to the fact that we are celebrating and not mourning the lost of a compatriot. “Also a set of prayers that may his soul rest in peace and the Almighty God received him in heaven as one of His most favoured servants on earth. “Finally, may God give the family the strength and fortitude to bear the loss, recognising that the loss is not just theirs but that of the entire Nigerians.”  Speaking in the same vein, Vice President Osinbajo described the late Pa Keyamo as “a man with great heart and forgiving spirit. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We celebrate a true Nigerian, born in Delta, raised in Kaduna and married a Yoruba woman. “In Nigeria, we must celebrate men who go completely outside their comfort zones and make Nigerians happy in their distinct ways. “He also proved that you can serve in both public and private sectors and distinguish yourself. He must be celebrated.” Osinbajo urged the children to continue to emulate the footsteps of their fathers. “On behalf of President Buhari, government and people of Nigeria, I express my deep condolences to the family, government and people of Delta over the passage of Pa Keyamo,” Osinbajo added. Similarly, Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta urged the Keyamo family to continue to emulate the good legacies of their late father. “I plead with the children that the good remarks they have made about their father should be reflected in their daily lives so that we can continue to build a much greater society. “I pray that God’s grace will continue to rest upon all of you so that you will continue to keep the flag of the family flying. “In such a manner that in several years to come, as we talk about Keyamo’s family, we have every course to say thank God for Pa Keyamo. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I expressed my condolences and prayed that God will lead you on, even this period of celebration and beyond,” Okowa prayed. The Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, also said that Pa Keyamo had good legacies that must be protected by his family. “Pa Keyamo left behind indelible marks in the development of his community, Urhobo ethnic nationality and Delta. “He ran a good race and now he has gone. A devoted Jehovah’s Witness I believe till his death. “On behalf of the people of Delta Central Senatorial District, I wish Papa farewell. It is my earnest prayers that God will continue to grant the children and grandchildren the fortitude to bear the passage,” he said. Earlier, Brother Joseph Akpan of the Jehovah’s Witness, said that people were remembered for the kind of life they live. Akpan, who took his sermon from the Holy Book of John 11:23-26 spoke extensively on the resurrection. “God provides hope that we are still alive. God said that He will wipe out our tears and death will be no more. “The grave symbolises death, it is the place where man is permanently laid. All consciousness and activities of the man cease,” Akpan said. Pa Mathias Keyamo was born on Aug. 22, 1938, in Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta. He died on March 5, 2022, at the age of 83 and was survived by his wife, Mrs Caroline, seven children, 25 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Other dignitaries at the event included: former APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of Delta, James Ibori, Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs Pauline Tallen, among others.