The tactical team of Imo State police command has raided the hideout of the Indenious People of Biafra (IPOB)/ESN and arrested their bomb manufacturer simply identified as Semion Onigbo. The raiding and arrest of the suspect is sequel to the modified and invigorated strategies emplaced by the Command’s management team under the watch of the commissioner of police, Imo Command, CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde, on assumption of office with a view to checkmate violent crimes and criminality in the state. In a statement issued in Owerri, on Friday, and endorsed by the Command’s spokesman, CSP Michael Abatham, said that it is in line with commissioner of police strategy in stemming down crime. He said that the Command’s Tactical Teams following credible intelligence received on April 20, 2022 revealed the hideout of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)/Eastern Security Network (ESN), its militia wing, where they are manufacturing improvised explosive devices used in attacking police stations and government facilities in the state. The PPRO said that the police operatives immediately mobilised to the hideout of the terror group located at Uba Umuaka in Njaba LGA of Imo State and raided the camp. He said that in the course of the raid, a 50-year-old Simeon Onigbo was arrested.  According to him on the spot interrogation, the suspect admitted being the manufacturer of most of the Improvised Explosive Devices (I.E.Ds) used in attacking police stations in the state and outside the state. Abatham said that on searching the criminal hideouts, some items were recovered which include: one already prepared improvised explosive devices, fifty eight pieces of cannon steel pipe, two chisels, one monday hammer one and a half bag of potassium nitrate, thirty pounds weight of Sulphur, fourty pounds weight of dry sand, ten pounds weight of red sand, thirty pounds weight of gun powder, half bag of charcoal, thirty electronic motorcycle batteries and seven lengths of 8 millimeters iron rods. The PPRO said that the Command’s Explosive Ordinance Disposal Unit (EOD) has taken over the recovered bomb for technical analysis and subsequently for possible detonation. He said that investigation is ongoing adding that the suspect has made useful statement and mentioned members of his gangs outside the state who patronise him. Abatham said that operatives of the Command are not relenting and all efforts are on top gear to arrest the named suspects. The Commissioner of Police, Imo Command, CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde, poised in ensuring that terrorism and other violent crimes are brought to its barest minimum in the state, has commended the officers and men for their gallantry and proactiveness. He appealed to Imolites to continue to support the police and other security agencies with credible and timely information that will assist the Command tremendously in fighting crimes to a stand still in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police raid IPOB/ESN hideout, arrest bomb manufacturer in Imo Police raid IPOB/ESN hideout, arrest bomb manufacturer in Imo