The Chief Executive Officer of New Horizons Nigeria, Mr Tim Akano, has bagged awards from three major umbrella bodies of Nigerian youths organisations, namely, the Council of Students Union Presidents (CSUP), Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) and Odua Youths Parliament (OYP) for his relentless commitment and unparalleled passion for youth empowerment. The groups, combined together have over four million students membership in all the higher institutions across the 36 states and Abuja, 19 Northern states and across nine South West states came to recognise and honour Akano with various awards. While NYCN conferred the title of ‘Barkuwan Matasan Arewa Najeriua’ – the shield of Northern Nigerian youths, the OYP and CSUP presented awards of excellence for his numerous youth empowerment projects across Nigeria, especially in the area of ICT. The New Horizons CEO was recently named by the Federal Government as Nigeria’s Icon of Youth Empowerment through the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Skills Acquisitions and Empowerment Department (SAED). In addition, Akano was named by two national newspapers during the recent celebration of University of Ife@60 as one of the best 60 alumnus of the university, while the government of Osun State during the 30th anniversary of the state included Tim Akano as one of the 30 Living Legends from Osun State. Receiving the awards from the groups, an elated Akano said he appreciated the thought and the thinking that went into it and assured them that it would challenge him to do more. “Helping youths to shape their future is the reason I exist and outside of that there is not much meaning again for me in life,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.