A presidential aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Mrs Patience Ndidi Key, has declared her intention to contest for Nigerian presidency in 2003 saying it is time to make the true transformation that Nigerians will benefit from. Ndidi Key who made her declaration on Wednesday at the NUJ Press Centre, Utako, Abuja said the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government by President Muhammadu Buhari has failed the citizens. The presidential aspirant said what Nigeria needs is the total overhauling of the system by bringing in people who can change the situation of things in Nigeria and Nigerians for good. She said lack of political will and competence not age has been the bane of Nigerian politics. She said the experience needed in politics has nothing to do with age but knowing what to do by putting the right infrastructure in place and provide security for the citizens. “After 108 years of nationhood, 62 years of political independence and over two decades of uninterrupted civil rule, the state of our country is a woeful depiction of how efficiently our past and present leaderships have mobilized, exploited, and managed our over 200 million vibrant population; rich cultural diversity; apparently inexhaustible deposits of natural resources; congenial climate; rich soil, flora and fauna, among a horde of other potentials. “Our country is profusely bleeding. Poverty, hunger and anger are boldly imprinted on the faces of the vast majority of the populace. Pervasive insecurity has denied many Nigerians not only their lives and the lives of their loved ones, but also their freedom, dignity and means of livelihood. Terrorists now hoist their flags on huge swathes of land within our national territory; more alarmingly, some within a few hundred kilometers from our nation’s capital! “It is time to inject a fresh breath of air, a fresh ray of hope, for every Nigerian. At this defining moment, we cannot allow political party prejudices and the primordial sentiments of religion, ethnicity, tribe, and gender to becloud our reasoning. This is also not the time for indifference, complacency, or despondency. We must all honestly admit that our nation-state is precariously drifting in murky waters,” she said.  The presidential aspirant said what Nigeria needs is a leader with competence and vision. She however said zoning has not helped Nigeria in anyway saying she will prefer meritocracy if she had her way. “Nigerians want a leader that will change their fortune and it is about gender because leadership is not gender based. Zoning has not helped us what will need is meritocracy. But if it (zoning) is what we have practiced these years no problem but if I have my way, I will go for merit,” the former chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) United States chapter said.