Youths and children are influenced by what they see around them just because they have no knowledge about the things they are being influenced by. Society plays a huge role in molding teenage behavior, idiosyncrasies, character typologies and attitudinal preferences. It determines how they see other people, their general outlook on life and their ethics. Sadly, however, some parents also contribute to these issues by the way they raise their children. A video of a parent who gave a bottle of beer to his five-year-old son to drink trended recently. Such father had the courage to put such video online, not minding how that would affect those that saw such post. Social media has affected many of these children and teens, distracting them from their studies, disrupting their sleep, exposing them to bulling, rumor mongering, unrealistic views of other people’s lives. It has also brought unwanted attention and also increased depression or anxiety. Youths, instead of using the social media in a negative way, should rather be creative, build networks, improve their knowledge base and also learn new digital literacy skills. There are many ways to make money on social media.  Parents should make sure that they know what their children are using the various social media platforms for, make sure you are among of your child friend list on any social media that your child is using. Equally at all levels of governance, there should be regulations that guide the use of social media platforms. Regulations are key drivers in this regard. Except this is done, it will be difficult to put society on the footing that is tandem with probity and morality. The moral fabric of any nation is very crucial to social cohesion. The various orientation agencies should be such that play their roles in creating the needed awareness to all that should be covered.  We live in a world whose standards and values are daily changing and shifting. The pressure to keep up has never been this grinding. Values which guarantee societal growth are sacred and should guarded as such. Abayode Temitope, Ibadan. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.