THOUSANDS of Nigerians from all walks of life stormed Eagle Square in the nation’s capital to witness the official acceptance of Governor Yahaya Bello to vie for the 2023 presidency. The venue of the declaration was filled to the brim while an almost equal crowd was seen outside the venue, with many support groups clad in different distinct attires, chanting solidarity songs. The last few months have witnessed calls by different youth and women groups across Nigeria for the Kogi State governor to run as president. The tone of the event was set by remarks from the national coordinator of Hope 2023, Yahaya Bello Campaign Organization, Senator Jonathan Zwingina and Director-General of the Hope 2023 Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola, who both charged Nigerians to see Hope 2023 as an avenue to rebuild a challenged nation. Zwingina said he found in Yahaya Bello a Nigerian who was determined to fix the nation. “We have a man in our hands who has all it takes to make Nigeria a great nation. That man is Yahaya Bello. In 1993, we hoped for a great nation. But that Hope was truncated. “Today, we have another hope. That Hope will give us prosperity as a nation,” he said. Coming a week after Senator Abdullahi Adamu from Nasarawa State emerged as national chairman of APC, Bello’s declaration could pose a challenge to the position of stakeholders in the party who appear to be supporting the position that the presidential ticket of the party would be zoned to the southern part. But a source in Bello’s camp said there is nowhere in the 1999 Constitution or that of APC that the presidency should be zoned to any part of the country. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Further investigation by Sunday Tribune revealed that other chieftains of the APC who have signified interest are mainly from the Southern part of the country. The list include former Lagos State governor, Senator Bola Tinubu, former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; incumbent governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi. Posters of former Rivers State Governor and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi were also sighted at the venue of the party’s convention held last weekend in Abuja, though he is yet to formally signify interest. In her remarks, Hafsat Abiola told the crowd that the time for the renaissance was now. “To the youth and women of Nigeria, congratulations. This is your product, own it,” she said amidst cheers. The daughter of the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election said Nigerians were poor while Nigeria was not poor. She charged the people to elect a leader who could tap into the potentials of the nation to impact on the people. “The journey to a new Nigeria has started and we will go all the way to ensure Yahaya Bello becomes the President of Nigeria. We have seen in him, a cosmopolitan leader who will bring Nigeria together and heal the wounds of the past,” she noted. The Deputy Governor of the state, Chief David Onoja, said Bello had protected the political interest of the Kogi women without any special legislation, assuring the Nigerian women of the readiness of Yahaya Bello to ensure women inclusion. While declaring his intention to run, Governor Bello reiterated that he had demonstrated capacity to lead Nigeria in his present assignment as the Governor of Kogi State, noting that, for him, all that mattered was Nigeria and the wellbeing of citizens. He traced his persecution in some sections of the media to his refusal to have godfathers. He said, “I do not deny that false and evil reports against us have often filled the press but all of us know why. He who pays the piper dictates the tune, and those who control the media control their narratives. It is well known that we offended powerful vested interests on our way to power in Kogi State. “Moreover, since we took office, we have committed the unpardonable political sin in Nigeria, that is, refusal to have godfathers and kowtow to them. Their anger has burned furiously against us and sadly they have often misled the media about us. As a result, we have had to work extra hard to receive fair comment, not to talk of accolades or credit for our many achievements.”