The chairman of the forum of Northern Speakers and speaker of Kaduna State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani, has called on Muslims to pray for Nigeria as they observe the beginning of Ramadan fast. The Speaker advised Muslims to pray against insecurity bedeviling the nation as well as the various challenges facing it. The Northern Speakers said the call to pray for Nigerians to pray to Almighty Allah on this holy month is necessary for us to get a relief and quick resolutions. Zailani noted that invocation and supplication to God is the greatest weapon of believers, especially Nigerians at a difficult time such as this. The chairman made the call on Saturday in a Ramadan message signed by his SA media and Publicity , Honourable Ibrahim Dahiru Danfulani. Zailani enjoined Muslims to conduct themselves very well during the holy month in order to maximize the spiritual and physical benefits inherent in the month. He identified good intention, prayers, and firmness of purpose in the pursuit of good deeds as conditions for reaping the benefits of the holy month. The statement reminded Muslims that Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam and urged the faithfuls to accord it all the necessary attention by being proactive in decisions and actions that will ensure their full participation in the fast. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The Speaker further urged Nigerians to let their actions match their prayers. “As we begin the Ramadan fast, we must take actions that match our prayers. The holy month is a period of sacrifice, prayers and reflection on our attitudes and contributions to nation-building. It bears repeating here that without peace and unity, socio economic development will continue to elude our society,” he added. It also called on preachers to guard their utterances during the fasting period. It urged them to concentrate on the true teachings of Islam rather than engage in mutual recrimination as was the case in the past. “Muslim scholars should instead educate their audience of what is expected of Muslims during the holy month of Ramadan to earn Allah’s blessings,” the statement said.