All is set by the Orange Card Project, a non-governmental organisation, to reward public primary and secondary school teachers in Ogun State with some cash grants and scholarships worth N20 million. The initiative is to support the state government in its efforts to raise the standard of living of teachers in the state, their proficiency, the education sector and the economy as a whole. The CEO, Orange Card Project, Dr Anuolowapo Jolaoso, made the announcement at a media conference in Lagos on Monday. She said only 200 teachers across the state are to benefit from the project at the pilot phase with the hope of extending the opportunities to accommodate more teachers in the state and some other states of the federation in the near future. She said the grants would cover cash support and capacity building programmes focusing on the effective use of digital tools and resources, subjects’ content development and entrepreneurial skills. She said the COVID-19 pandemic had shown that every teacher irrespective of gender and level of education being operating must have to embrace digital classrooms to remain relevant and competitive with peers globally. “So, we need to support them in any way possible for them to make more impact in their nation-building profession,” she added. Mrs Jolaoso noted that the beneficiaries of the project either registered with the organisation before now or not would have to apply for the grants within two weeks deadline from April 1st to April 14. She said the applicants would then go through screening in conjunction with their relevant associations and shortlist those eligible for a raffle draw to pick the target number among them. She said the essence of the raffle draw is for openness and transparency of the entire process since only 200 teachers can be accommodated. Mrs Jolaoso added that the organisation is also supporting teachers with a special card known as Orange Card Privilege to purchase essential commodities and appliances at prices lower than the market prices. She said all is to make teachers live a better life and be proud of their profession. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.