Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has stated that forces of darkness cannot triumph over God’s plans and wishes. In an Easter message to the people of the state, the Governor while felicitating with Christian faithful says let us use the occasion set by Jesus Christ, the pain, the sacrifice, the triumph and the message of hope echo with timeless resonance. “We congratulate the Christian faithful on the completion of Lent and the great feast of Easter. This festival of triumph follows the holy season of Lent, during which the Christian community engaged in fasting, prayers and works of charity. He noted that as people of faith, let us continue to practice in our daily lives the lessons of sacrifice, care for the poor, deep spiritual reflection and love for all humankind, irrespective of tribe or religion, observed during the fasting.  “Easter symbolises the triumph of hope over despair and an affirmation that darkness cannot trump the plans and wishes of Almighty God. ‘”Jesus Christ set an example of sacrifice that has moved men and women through the ages. As we celebrate the triumph of Christ, let us embrace all the lessons of Easter, never losing faith in the will of Almighty God, and the triumph of good over evil. “Let us uphold each other in our common humanity and pray for peace in our land. Let us do our best to promote harmony in our communities and reject strife in our land. Let hope never depart from our hearts. To this end, “I call on everyone who calls Kaduna State home to work together to uphold our state, its hardworking people and their accomplishments from those who seek to menace and destroy. “We pray God Almighty that the blessings and lessons of Easter will spread all through our State, and move us all to be better people, that the Almighty will comfort all our people who have been affected by the security challenges that confront us. “May the good Lord bestow His grace upon us, bless our state and its people, reward the endeavours of our citizens and protect us all from danger and discord. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…