General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has noted that the increasing spate of oil theft will push the country into bankruptcy. He quoted media reports that stated that about 80 per cent of Nigeria’s oil production capacity is being stolen, warning that such development could lead the country into bankruptcy if not checked early. Adeboye stated this while delivering a sermon during the monthly Thanksgiving Service of the church on Sunday where he spoke on other current national challenges. He said: “It is in the news and nobody has denied it that as of now more than 80 per cent of the oil we are producing is being stolen… that leads me to several questions. “Who is stealing the oil? Where is the money going? What do they want to do with the money? Who are the foreign nations buying this stolen oil? How many of these nations of the world are your friends? ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We are borrowing more and according to a friend of mine, we are moving steadily towards a state of bankruptcy, a whole nation. “That is why we are going to pray so that our children and children’s children do not keep paying debt. We are still borrowing. “We will ask God to expose all those stealing our oil money. We will pray that God will have mercy on Nigeria.” The charismatic leader also bemoaned the high rate of insecurity in some parts of the country, particularly, in Kaduna State. Recall that people were attacked by bandits in some sections of the state in the past weeks. “You cannot go to Kaduna by road, you cannot go to Kaduna by air and you cannot go to Kaduna by rail. “The question is, why Kaduna and who are those ones responsible? Which state is going to be the next? “We must pray for Kaduna, we must pray for the Northern part of the country and we must pray for Nigeria as a whole,” he noted. Though the clergyman revealed that God is yet to speak with him about the 2023 general elections, he, however, said there is still time for God to speak. The 80-year-old cleric said: “Why would you be concerned about 2023? You don’t even know if rapture would have taken place before 2023. “As of now, as I am standing before you, I still don’t know yet whether or not there would be an election next year. “Don’t say that Pastor Adeboye said there would be no election next year; that’s not what I said. Adeboye does not know yet, put the word ‘yet’. “During the last election in 2019, my father had told me by June of 2018. My father told me there was going to be an election, but he has not done it now, although there is still time. “I am not a politician and I am more concerned about what is happening now and not 2023.” Adeboye also stated that he is not supporting any politician or party in the said election. This may not be unconnected to feelers indicating that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who is a pastor of the church may contest the presidential election and the directives for RCCG members to show interest in politics. The octogenarian, however, said the church remains home to members of different political parties and he, a father to all. “We have All Progressives Congress (APC), we have members who are Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Every political party is represented here. “Anybody who comes from any political party and asks me to pray for him. I have only one prayer, which is, ‘Let the will of God be done concerning the fellow.’ “I tell my children to show interest in politics because the witches are also interested in politics,” he said. “So if the witches are interested, why won’t Christians be interested in politics. I am telling my children to show interest in politics to be relevant. Christians should register to have their voters cards and ensure that they vote during elections because there is no more room for rigging elections in the country,” he said. 