As part of its mandate, the National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has commenced harvest from its first dry season wheat farm in Gombe State. Benefiting youth and women of North-East Nigeria could not hold back excitement as the The 100 hectares land farmland which is located at Papa community in Nafada Local Government Area of Gombe state was cultivated in December of 2021 by 100 women and youth drawn from the community at a ratio of 1 hectare to a person. Beneficiaries were provided with 2 Brand New Tractors, Agro-chemicals, fertilisers, irrigation pump, improved hand tools, land clearing and technical guidance by NALDA. During a visit to the farm, the Executive Secretary of NALDA Prince Paul Ikonne who was represented by Engineer Olusegun Owolabi, Director Engineering at NALDA while addressing the farmers said the harvest is proof that Nigeria can produce what she eats and eat what she produces. He stated that the achievement is worth celebrating as Nigeria spends huge forex on wheat importation which is why NALDA is changing the Narrative. “This gathering is the celebration of the outcome of partnership between NALDA and Gombe State Government late last year, as the Authority observed that Wheat, an agricultural product is the third item in the national importation list and resolved to kick start rewriting the history which lead to NALDA collaboration with some states including Gombe to produce wheat” On market availability, Ikonne said NALDA would get prospective buyers (processing companies) off-take from the farmers. Prince Ikonne commended the state commissioner of Agriculture, the Local government Chairman, the Traditional ruler and beneficiaries for giving their best in ensuring a good harvest. The commissioner of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry in Gombe state Alhaji Muhammed Magaji Gettado said the farm would go a long way to improve the livelihoods of the farmers. Gettado noted that before the establishment of the farm, youth of the community at this particular period of the year migrate to neighbouring Taraba State and other neighbouring towns to make earnings but now they are ground walking on NALDA’s dry season wheat farm. “Normally around this time, youth of Nafada use to go to Taraba and other towns but now we thank God the story is different” The commissioner called on NALDA to take it a step further by providing harvest machines such as threshers for the farmers to enable them to package a clean produce. Rukayatu Usman, a female beneficiary of the project who could not hide her excitement, while speaking in Hausa said the project is a blessing to them in the community and they’re thanking God for blessing their hard work with bountiful harvest. Also, NALDA distributed pumping machines to farmers to boost irrigation farming at its Integrated Farm Estate in Suduje, Daura local government area of the state During the presentation Ikonne charged the over 100 beneficiaries on ground to use the machines to boost their irrigation activities. The Executive Secretary warned them against selling the machines as it’s for their benefit and that of their community. “These machines are not for you to go sell, no but they are for you to use and better the growth of your farms and earn more income for yourselves and family” One of the beneficiaries, a retired Technical college teacher turned farmer, Abashe Ali Daura who engages in both wet season and dry season farming said the Pumping machines would go a long way in improving and expanding his farm. 