Fast rising musician, Olurunyomi Oloruntimilehin popularly known as Bad Boy Timz has finally settled with his former record label, Anonymous Music and its directors, Precious and Temple Egemasi. Bad Boy Timz was arrested in Abuja for allegedly defrauding the company after a video that circulated online which showed the singer in handcuffs. Afterwards, there were a lot of back and forth between both parties including allegations, threats, media trials, etc. Months after the Abuja incident, Timz eventually reaches an out-of-court settlement with his former label.  Speaking about the incident, the label said Bad Boy Timz signed a 5-year record deal with Anonymous Music owned by brothers Precious Egemasi and Temple Egemasi on 15th April, 2019. Anonymous Music is a Music Company that invests, manages, promotes and markets Music artists in Nigeria. After series of Singles and Videos, his first body of work was released, ‘TIMZ E-P’ which features Zlatan, Barry Jhay and Anonymous. All these efforts were enough to build his fanbase while working to establish the brand properly in the Nigerian Music industry. Later in 2020, Bad Boy Timz eventually got his major hit with the release of ‘MJ’ at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic where lockdowns were observed in most part of the world. The record label went hard with the promotion covering every possible base despite the restrictions. The song became an instant hit and was everyone’s favorite. Aside from the smooth delivery by Timz on ‘MJ’, the label churned out a heavy marketing budget making sure it’s well retained on top of the major playlists across all platforms. The song also had different remix versions from established acts “Mayorkun’ and ‘Tennie’. This was the beginning of success for Bad Boy Timz. He went on to be featured on the smash record ‘Loading’ by Olamide. At the 14th edition of Headies, he was crowned the “Rookie of the Year” ahead of Olakira, Alpha P, Jamopyper and Zinoleesky. Shortly after the release of ‘Loading’ by Olamide, according to sources, Badboy Timz approached the Label ‘Anonymous Music’ to terminate his contract. This came at the height of his success, when the gigs wouldn’t stop coming. The label rejected his appeal on terms of reason not being genuine. It was seen as an attempt to dumb the Label after an eventual breakout. The Label invested and continues to invest heavily in the marketing of the artist and is yet to recoup. Thereafter, Badboy Timz alongside his Road manager started getting paid gigs without the knowledge of the Label. This was against the contract he signed and was quickly addressed by the Label. Instead, Timz continued in the act until the Label could no longer take it. Badboy Timz received £9,000 for performance in the United Kingdom; this and many other gigs were all hidden to the Label running into multiple million naira. The management of Anonymous Group, having had enough of his unwillingness to abide by the contract, petitioned the Inspector General of Police in Nigeria. Timz was eventually arrested in Abuja on May 19th, 2021. After the arrest, the Label released statements accusing Timz of Fraud. On the other hand, Bad Boy Timz threatens to sue the Label. After series of meetings, the Label agrees to terminate the contract on the request of the artist. On the 15th November, 2021; it was resolved that Badboy Timz shall cease from being an artist under Anonymous Music. The artist agreed to pay the Music Label ₦60 Million naira only in compensation. The Label also agrees to retract copyright claims made against Bad Boy Timz across music distribution platforms. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…