A Lagos based entrepreneur, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, has maintained that he is running the governorship position of Ebonyi State for the interest of Ebonyians and not his clan. Dr Odii, who is aspiring under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), disclosed this while interacting with journalists at his country home, Isu, in Onicha local government area of Ebonyi State. According to him, his government if he becomes the governor of the State, would be to focus on wealth creation by way of creating jobs for the unemployed youths, so as to reduce social vices. He however maintained that he has the capacity to deliver the state. “It is only God who knows the heart of any individual. For me, I am an Ebonyian. I am running the election because I am an Ebonyi man and not because I am from Ebonyi south, north or central. What I believe is the capacity. Leadership is all about who can deliver. “Every other person may be running because they are from north or central but I am running as Ebonyi person. I anchor my running because I am a bonafide son of Ebonyi State. All my projects is cut across every local government area of Ebonyi State, which means I am a true Ebonyi person. If you go to Izzi land, I have projects there, if you go to Ikwo, I have projects there and I am doing it with my private resources. Anywhere you go, you will find Anyi Chuks projects there.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “I have so many people under my scholarship. I don’t discriminate because I am not from Izzi. So, we should be talking about the Ebonyi interest and not clannish interest and that is why I want to run. “I have been a businessman. I have been an entrepreneur. Government is all about wealth creation because when you create wealth, you have tackled a lot of problems. The youth will be able to get jobs and the tendency of reducing social vices will be there. Our people will be gainfully employed. “So for me, I started a business and I was able to grow that business and I have a lot of people working under my private enterprise. So, what it means is that if I replicate that template, there will be more jobs created for our people. So for me, it is all about wealth creation. Every other governor, even the present ones, they may have done well, but for me, I will focus on wealth creation.”