The new commissioner of Police Imo State Command, CP Mohammed Ahmed Barde, has ordered an immediate investegation into the recent attack on the house of the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Imo State, Barr. Cyprain Akolisa and his father. The commissioner disclosed this to Nigerian Tribune on Monday through the Command’s spokesman CSP Michael Abatham. He confirmed the attack on the country home of commissioner and his father, assuring the resolve of command to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident with a view to arresting those behind the attack. The gunmen had on Sunday razed the house of the commissioner and his father at Obibi, Awo- Idemili, in Orsu Local Government Area of Imo State. The arsonist left nothing standing in the building. The AG while confirming the Sunday attack on Facebook said: “The Igbos are hardworking people who through their years of toils put up structures and leave developmental strides in their communities of origin maka “akụ ruo ụlọ, a mara onye nwe ya.” He acknowledged the fact that through his many years of struggle, he has managed to put a block on another to build a befitting house for his family. His aged father also has a house he built through his sweats. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “Today, both buildings are in rubbles and ashes – our fellow Igbos burnt them. Firstly, last year, these arsonists burnt my country home in Obibi, Awo-Idemili, Orsu LGA of Imo State for no just cause. “This year again, they returned and this time, they perfected the complete burning of even the blocks/bricks. “And last night, to my utter consternation, they levelled my father’s house. This is a house my father built by himself – the life-toil of an aged man.” The AG asked to know about the Igbo spirit, describing it as a direct affront to the “akụ ruo ụlọ” spirit while adding who will invest in Igbo land nay Orsu LGA today under this type of atmosphere? He said: “The above are acts of arson ongoing in my LGA of Orsu. The complete burning of our LGA Secretariat, the house of my colleague – Chief Prince Ford Ozumba, the Hon Commissioner, Imo State Ministry of Labour, Employment and Productivity, the house of Hon. Ekene Nnodumele, the member representing Orsu State Constituency in the Imo State House of Assembly. There are also houses of other political leaders which have been razed in my area so far.” According to him, other ungodly acts are the sacking and carting away of all the Police presence & armouries in Orsu LGA, the kidnapping and killing of well-to-do individuals and security operatives adding that this attendant scare has become a daily phenomenon in my Local Government Area. He said: “Today, these gunmen (Codenamed Ụmụ Ọma, under the guise of freedom fighters) have continued to demand huge sums of money from mourning families who wish to bury their loved ones and the likes. It is now strictly business! These gunmen have almost made a god of themselves, killing and carniballising at will, in my area but believe me, they will not succeed with our voices up and collaborative efforts.” He said that: “It is unfortunate that the majority of those who foment these troubles are not indigenous to Orsu but have garnered collaborators and enablers among the locals either through fear, persuasion, financial inducements and made to swear to devilish oaths of secrecy.” He said: “It is time to synergize and put an end to the siege in Orsu LGA and liberate our people who are worse hit by the economic downturn occasioned by the ravaging insecurity. For the enablers and cheerers, It is time for the needed retrospect, soul-searching to interrogate the process so far by weighing the gains and loses.”