A 62-year-old grandmother identified as Veronica Adedun and her daughter, Yemisi Adedun, has been dragged before a Magistrate Court sitting in Akure, the Ondo State Capital, over an alleged shop-breaking and stealing. Apart from the grandmother and her daughter, two other people, Taye Abidakun and David Sunday were also arraigned before the court. The Police Prosecutor, Inspector Nelson Akintimehin, told the court that both Abidakun and Sunday were serial burglars who specialised in breaking into peoples’ shops and homes to steal properties. According to him, the stolen goods are usually given to Yemisi and her mother who usually disposed of the stolen goods. He explained that the duo were caught after breaking into a shop on April 14th at Obanla Street, Akure and stole goods worth over N2m. He said ”Other properties found in the woman’s possession and reasonably suspected to be stolen are; 16 white chairs, in which one of it has an inscription ‘Mercy English Baptist Church, Akure, two ceiling fans, three Ox fans, four wall clocks, deep freezers, two refrigerators, various electronics, and two bundles of iron sheets.  “Also, various kitchen utensils, a sack containing used clothings, including a Ghana-must-go bag containing Civil Defence uniform, Peace Corps uniform, black combat shoes and a seven booklet invoice sales receipt which the address could not be traced which they use to sell the stolen properties.” He, however, said a three-count charge bothering on criminal conspiracy, shop breaking and theft was preferred against the defendants. The offences, according to Akintimehin, contravened Sections 516(A)(1), 413(1) and 430 of the Criminal Code, Cap 37 Laws of Ondo, 2016. However, the defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Presiding Magistrate, Musa Al-Yunus granted Taye bail in the sum of N2m with two sureties in like sum, while others were admitted to bail in the sum of N500,000. The Magistrate ordered the four defendants taken to the Olokuta Correctional Centre, until they are able to meet their various bail conditions and adjourned to May 23, 2022, for a hearing. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… Grandmother, daughter docked for stealing We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo Grandmother, daughter docked for stealing