Men of the Ondo State police command have arrested a 27-year old man, Adeniyi Adeleke, for allegedly defiling a ten-year-old girl in Idoani in the Ose Local Government Area of the state. The accused who lives in the same house with the little girl was said to have lured the girl into his room and forcefully have carnal knowledge of the minor. The minor who could not bear the pains reported the incident to her mother who rushed her to the hospital where it was confirmed that the girl was raped. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Funmilayo Odunlami, who confirmed the incident said the mother of the victim reported the incident at the police station while the suspect was arrested. Odunlami said the suspect confessed to the crime that he wanted to use the girl for money ritual while a ring and red clothes were found in his room. She said: “On April 16, 2022, at about 14:40hrs, one Bosede Alo of Idoani reported at the Idoani Division, that sometimes in the month of March 2022, at about 15: 00hrs, one Adeniyi Adeleke, 27 years called her ten-year-old daughter to his room and forcefully have carnal knowledge of her.  “On receipt of the information, Detectives swung into action and arrested the suspect, upon interrogation he confessed to have committed the crime that he wanted to use her for money ritual. “Items recovered are a ring and pieces of red clothes. He will soon be charged to court,” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Police arrest 27-year-old for allegedly defiling 10-year-old girl in Ondo Police arrest 27-year-old for allegedly defiling 10-year-old girl in Ondo