LAGOS State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday, witnessed the virtual landing of the Google Equiano Sea Cable System in Nigeria, saying the country will enjoy a boost of 1.6 million jobs and $10 billion in additional Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over the next three years, on account of the new cable system. Speaking at the reception marking the landing of the cable system in Nigeria, at the Open Access Data Centre at Lekki, Governor Sanwo-Olu said the new cable system is the latest element in the transformation of the physical infrastructure landscape, new roads, bridges, jetties, factories, municipal and national rail lines, among others, being delivered by his administration and a host of partners and stakeholders across public and private sectors. The landing of Equiano Sea Cable System will firmly position Nigeria as the regional connectivity and content hub for West Africa, attracting cloud operators, content providers, content distribution networks and their associated ecosystems. The new cable system is named after a Nigerian hero, Olaudah Equiano, who survived enslavement in the 18th century and went on to become a famous writer and anti-slavery activist. Governor Sanwo-Olu said his administration is determined to deliver on its promise to make and maintain Lagos as a safe, livable, innovative and prosperous megacity. He said: “I am told that this new Equiano cable system, landing today, will deliver 20 times as much network capacity as any of the existing systems serving Nigeria.  “This means much faster internet speed, reduced cost and greater access for our people. The net effect of this is much-needed jobs and economic growth. The economic impact assessment for the project estimates that Nigeria will enjoy a boost of 1.6 million jobs and $10 billion in additional GDP over the next three years, on account of the new cable system.” Governor Sanwo-Olu also commended Google LLC, the West Indian Ocean Cable Company (WIOCC) and other investors for identifying with his administration’s vision for a truly 21st Century Lagos and a megacity all will forever be proud of. Speaking earlier, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of WIOCC, Chris Wood, said the submarine cables will deliver high-speed internet connectivity at a reduced cost, as he appreciated Governor Sanwo-Olu for providing an enabling environment for the investment to birth in Lagos State.