The critical roles played by foundations in developing countries in alleviating poverty, engendering social and democratic development and bridging the gap where government falls short in attending to the needs of the society have been emphasised. Various speakers at a webinar held on Monday to mark the 30th anniversary of the Obafemi Awolowo Foundation with the theme: “The Role of Foundations in Developing Countries,” noted that foundations continue to take up overwhelming government responsibilities. Over the years, they noted that foundations have continued to make a difference in developing societies by being involved in aspects of human rights, social inclusion, equality, gender rights, cultural protection, poverty alleviation and value creation. Setting the tone of the event, executive director, Obafemi Awolowo Foundation, Ambassador Dr Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosumu noted that notwithstanding the sheer magnitude of the gap-building task of foundations in developing countries, foundations must be encouraged by the need to realize their mission and vision of making the world a better place to live. While describing as noteworthy the fact that foreign-based foundations remained unrelenting in their work in developing countries, she also noted that indigenous foundations deployed theirs or other privately sourced funds to achieve great feats in developing the society. For foundations to have greater impact, Awolowo Dosumu stressed the importance of foundations networking, synergizing, sharing experiences and exploring partnership opportunities to achieve greater effectiveness. Pointing to sustainability as greatest challenge facing foundations, she said uncommon determination and commitment to their mission and vision will keep them afloat. She said: “The sheer magnitude of foundations self-appointed tasks, particularly in developing countries, can be overwhelming. Let us always be encouraged and keep making a difference to our societies even if it is to one star fish at a time. “I must also commend all the foreign-based foundations whose work in developing countries continues to be highly commendable, particularly in developing countries where provision falls critically short of the needs of the society.” “It takes uncommon determination and commitment for a foundation to remain afloat and relevant without compromising its core principles. Foundations have to decide ab initio their areas of focus and not deviate from them. “The need for periodic self-checks to ensure that the institution stays on course and remains faithful to its mission is also critical. We must continue to check on our direction and continued relevance.” Former Vice Chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo State, Professor Friday Okonofua, who delivered the keynote address, stressed that foundations are always tempted to abandon the cause of the poor, hence must constantly self-evaluate to know if they are addressing poverty. Stressing that the core niche of foundations is value creation, Okonofua said foundation must regularly check to see if they are servicing interests of individuals or group, if they are keeping to their mission and vision and whether or not business ethos is overshadowing ethos of the foundation. Though he noted that foundations have played major roles in Nigeria’s social and democratic development, Okonofua said he envisioned that indigenous foundations will play greater roles in development of the nation. To overcome the challenge of sustainability, Chairman MTN Foundation, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi said foundations must start with a good structure, have good governance principles and astute financial management. He charged foundations to continue to embark on various projects, noting that there is no end to the usefulness of foundations across communities of the nation. In his own remarks, Executive Secretary, African Capacity Building Foundation, Mr. Mamadou Biteye stressed that foundations must focus on human capacity development, be transparent and promote new ideas for development. He noted that foundations must continue to support small and medium scale enterprises to drive economic growth in the country. Furthermore, Mamadou advocated that foundations also adopt a scientific cum digital approach in their works of proffering solutions to societal challenges. Contributing, Chief Executive Officer of the Tony Elumelu Foundation, Mrs Ifeyinwa Ugochukwu identified poverty as the biggest problem bedevilling Nigeria. She identified entrepreneurship, the empowerment of women and youths as key in addressing the challenge of poverty. Also, she stressed that collaboration between the public, private sector and foundations is crucial to engendering socio-economic development of the country. In his own presentation, Chief Executive Officer of the Leventis Foundation, Nigeria, Dr Hope Usieta noted that the foundation had to continue to live up to its responsibility of developing the society despite being faced with challenges of finance, limited capacity, gender gap. Among attendees at the webinar were Zanele Mbeki and Aniele Mbeki, Dr Adedara Oduguwa, Tola Adeniyi, Ayotola Ayodeji, Akinwale Onipede, Akinlolu Elizabeth, Bola Doherty, Bola Osibodu, Buky Ajayi, Belinda Odeneye, Bolatito Olokuteyi, Bimbola Ashiru, Chief S.O Shonekan, Dolapo Adeniji-Adele, Dr Bunmi Binitie, Dr Femi Majekodunmi, Dr Moyo Onabanjo, Dr Jayne Shoboiki, Dr Nike Oduwole, Dr Kombo Braide, Dr Moji Afolabi, Dr Olufemi Oroge, Funmi Ogundoyin, Gabriel Ogunmola, Idowu Olayinka, Iranola Ayodeji, Dr Josephine Soboyejo, Jokotola Ogundimu, Major General Joseph Shoboiki (rtd), Mogaji Gbeyega Adejumo, Oba Onakade, Mrs Yemisi Ogunseinde, Monisola Aroloye-Adetula, Oba Adedokun Abolarin, Olokuteyi Gbenga, Professor Banji Akintoye, Professor Nike Grange, Professor Sat Obiyan, Professor Gloria Elemo, Professor Michael Adeyeye, Dr Segun Olatunji, Ronke Dosumu, Titi Laoye-Tomore, Professor Tolu Alola, Professor Wale Adebanwi, Yemi Alabi. 