The minister of science, technology and innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has said that the ministry’s effort through one of its policies; the national strategy for competitiveness in raw materials has led to the country’s ranking from 115 out of 140 countries in the world economic forum assessment, 2018 to 2019. He said this during the 27th quarterly meeting with management and staff of the ministry, on Friday, in Abuja. The minister said that when he came on board, the ministry was in bad shape but was raised to its epoch through the regular meetings with the management and staff. He, therefore, added that these meetings led to the creation of several other policies amongst which, five were approved, while four are awaiting approval by the federal executive council. The minister also said that by 2019 the ministry won the Servicom award of Excellency and ranked best performing ministry in terms of service delivery. The National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) by the presidential council under the chairmanship of the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo was also awarded the best in terms of transparency in service delivery in all MDAs.  Onu also said that on January 31st, 2022, National Assembly met with 270 agencies and stakeholders out of which, the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) was recognised as the best in terms of 100 per cent remittance of tax to the federation account. The minister further added that the University of Transportation in Daura, Kastina State is the product of one of the policies of the ministry which is Executive Order No. 5. Onu also said the effort by the Anambra State Government in promoting local content in the area of indigenous technology; industrialization is another added advantage of the Executive Order policy. He, therefore, thanked the directors, and CEO of agencies in the ministry for making sure that this meeting is held on a regular basis with the belief that the ministry will be able to achieve more for the benefit of the nation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Policy on raw materials ranks Nigeria 115 in 140 countries — FG Policy on raw materials ranks Nigeria 115 in 140 countries — FG