On the strength of his first impressive single, “I will praise his name”, featuring gospel sensation, Carol Cee, fast rising Nigerian-born and Japan based hip-hop act, J.Jeff, who is the visioner of Vision of Christ Entertainment (VCE), has officially released a new joint work, “I’m Blessed” album. The much-talked about latest effort ‘I’m blessed’, which featured the legendary and awards-winning reggae giant, Pupa Orits Wiliki was packaged by reggae powerhouse, Righteousman, courtesy of Bigtown International.  The Vision of Christ Entertainment (VCE), in collaboration with Bigtown International have mapped out strategies for a nationwide radio tour. Plans to storm locations in Japan and Nigeria for video shooting afterwards are also in top gear. The completed work according to Righteousman, would be out hopefully before the end of May. From all indications, ‘I’m Blessed’, is undoubtedly an interesting mix of the hip-hop brand and reggae, well-pronounced in a classic love song, dedicated to Jeff’s heart throb. No wonder, this titillating experiment tips the song and other powerful ones as exhilarating move meant to change the music game from this end of the world. There’s no doubt that the attendant positive result of J. Jeff moves, must have been obviously so visible, and tempting to make him to be so excited and happy too. He ascribed the divine assistance and the powerful musical input of reggae giant, Pupa Ortis Wiliki, whom had been his idol over the years. Jeff, who was in high spirit, had to throw open his VCE company to musically gifted young gospel acts for them to actualise their dreams through the J. Jeff Gospel Music Talent Hunt. He reiterated that his company is out to change the game of music-making in Nigeria and beyond by involving highly talented, experienced and innovative producers in the exercise. “The overall winner and others would automatically be signed unto the VCE label.  “This will be done in concert with some great icons at the grand finale, where all will do well packaged collabo. “To make this epoch-making moves in view thick, the VCE will liaise with the CEO of Bigtown International and reggae powerhouse, Righteousman who will groom professionally, produce and manage them afterwards as products of VCE special project,” Jeff submitted.