In its efforts to rebrand and reposition its Lagos State council, the national headquarters of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), has set up a 9-man committee to run the affairs of the Lagos branch of the union for three months. Recall that the State Administrative Council (SAC) of the union was dissolved recently by the national body. The national headquarters, in a statement jointly signed by the General Secretary, Alhaji Kabiru Ado Ya’u and the president, Alhaji Tajudeen Ibikunle Baruwa, said the need to set up the committee was borne out of the need to prevent the vacuum created by the dissolution of the SAC. The term of references of the committee includes “one , to take over the administration of the state Secretariat. Two, to invite the state chairman, Treasurer and any other SAC members in possession of union funds and property so that they can hand over same to the committee. Three, to take control of all the saleable items of the union. Four, to liaise with the state local government and other law enforcement agencies to ensure harmony and understanding. Five,to bring back the union’s lost glory and sanitize the union’s operation bastardized by the former state exco.” Members of the committee are Alhaji Fatai Adesina ( chairman), Chief Sunday Yusuff, Abraham Onifade and Jamiu Erinfolami. Others are Ismailia Ojora, Lekan Ariyibi, Alhaji Muritala Lawal and Alhaji Taiwo Azeez, while Comrade Kayode Agbeyangi will serve as secretary of the committee.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…