Despite the huge economic losses recorded by the Nigerian economy during the importation of adulterated into the country, the House of Representatives on Thursday exonerated Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited, its subsidiaries as well as all the oil marketers of any misgivings. The resolution was passed after the adoption of the report/recommendations of the House Committee on Petroleum Resources (Downstream), chaired by Hon Abdullahi Gaya on the investigative hearing into the importation and distribution of adulterated Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) into Nigeria, at the Committee of the Whole. According to the report, the Committee’s decision was based on NNPC’s submission, exonerating all the oil marketers. While giving a synopsis of the report, Hon. Chudi Momah who moved for the consideration observed that the consideration was suspended to allow for proper restructuring of the report, which has been done.  He, therefore, called for the favourable resumption of the consideration of the recommendations therein. According to the report, the House urged the Minister of Petroleum Resources to expedite action for completion of the rehabilitation work and ensure upgrading of the major refineries at Warri, Port Harcourt and Kaduna to meet AFRI5 Specification to boost local refining and reduce over-dependence on imported PMS into Nigeria to avert reoccurrence. The lawmakers also tasked the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources on the need to initiate the adoption of the 2017 PMS Standard (NIS 116:2017) as approved by the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) which include testing for Methanol for future importation of the product into the country to mitigate reoccurrence.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The House also underscored the need for the Federal Government to “position the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) to implement its mandate to the latter by subjecting all imported white Petroleum and other products to the Offshore conformity assessment and also resume routine quality control of them and other products imported into the country at our various Seaports, Airports and Borders throughout Nigeria as shrined in the Standards Organization of Nigeria enabling Act of 2015. “This will finally address the reoccurrence of the importation of off-specification PMS and other substandard goods into Nigeria.” As proposed by the Committee, based on the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited exoneration, the four Oil Marketers/Importers (Duke Oil, MRS Oil and Gas, Oando Oil and Emadeb, Energy/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Britannia-U Consortium) did not commit any offence, therefore not recommended for suspension. They further observed that Federal Government is to note that the Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) mandate is also specifically enshrined in item 62(d) of Part I of the Second Schedule (Exclusive Legislative List), to the 1999 Constitution. The House also urged the regulatory authority – Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) should ensure proper housekeeping by working with Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN), Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) and the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) in ensuring water is drained regularly out of the tanks in the Tank Farms, Tankers (trucks) and underground tanks at the service stations. The House also mandated NNPC Limited to maintain local supply and distribution of 90 million litres daily across the country until normalcy is restored.