A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Prince Adebayo Adewole, at the weekend, said if given the opportunity to become president in the 2023 general election, Nigeria’s debt can be paid within six months of his assumption of office, adding corruption and incompetence has been the bane of the country’s current precarious situation. Prince Adebayo made this assertion as a guest speaker of the Pastor Ituah Ighodalo led Africa leadership group lecture series titled ‘Nigeria: Hope in positive action,’ adding that mismanagement and greed on the part of Nigerian leaders made the country to a debtor nation. He debunked claims that his party is divided into factions, emphasising that Nigeria is even more divided than his party, which, fortunately, has closed ranks. “Our disagreement in SDP is not fundamental, just about administrative injustice. We are more united now than we were some months back. Nigeria has more divisions than the party. That is behind us now,” he said  While taking questions on the sincerity of the much-criticised 1999 constitution, Adebayo said there was really not much problem with the constitution, adding that the problem lies with the people. “Our constitution isn’t our problem. Our problem is lack of simple obedience to simple laws as simple as traffic and sanitation laws. We have a culture of disobedience and our leaders lead in that. It does not matter how faulty the constitution is, if you have people who are in the habit of disobedience, nothing works. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “So if you lack character, there is no way the constitution can work. Yes, the constitution isn’t perfect but that isn’t the root cause of misgovernance. Our misgovernance is traceable to our character. Some would prefer the parliamentary system of government which works and is still working in England. But it never worked here. “There are over 3000 things I can improve upon in the Nigerian constitution presently. But that isn’t the issue. We have been unlucky in the drivers we have. Mercedes is Mercedes. Toyota is a Toyota. It’s not the car that is the issue. We just need to change the driver. We have an opportunity to change the drivers in the coming election. “We have never had a people-oriented president emerging from the people. The constitution didn’t envisage some people would sit in their conclave and begin to recycle themselves around. The constitution isn’t the problem; we are,” he explained. Adebayo, who said he is not bothered at being described as a greenhorn, stated that it is the era of the greenhorns because “when God wants to change the history of people, He brings in fresh leaders. What matters is the courage to mean well. It’s not by might, but the truth. God cannot be ascribed with callousness that He would assemble over 200 million of his own being and He would lead them to perpetual slavery and backwardness. Even the captivity of the Zion ended at a time. This must be the time. We must have the spirit of Joshua to fall the Jericho.” According to him, criminality in Nigeria is at the highest in the State House, adding that “If there is no criminality in the State House, there won’t be criminality outside Once it can be stopped, everybody will follow suit. If the people in charge of the law are now perpetrating crime, then we are not qualified to call them to come and solve criminality outside. The character, spirit and person who becomes president are very important. “If such a person is given executive power, his fears, ignorance, prejudices automatically becomes ours. If he has weakness for money, we all become thieves. If he is prejudicial, that’s what we all become. What is happening in Nigeria today is both corruption and incompetence such that insecurity in Nigeria has now become a business,” he said. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa I can clear Nigeria’s debt in six months ― SDP presidential aspirant I can clear Nigeria’s debt in six months ― SDP presidential aspirant FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari I can clear Nigeria’s debt in six months ― SDP presidential aspirant