THE President, National As- sociation of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), Mrs Susan Akporiaye has concluded plans to host the participants and winners of Nigerian Teachers reality show, to a practical tourism experience. The itinerary for the teachers picked from the six geopolitical zones of the country, will span three days, with destination Lagos tourism in focus and a practical certificated classroom engagement organised by Aerovessel Aviation School in conjuction with Topaz Travel Group. Flips to the event, the first ever private sector tourism give back project to Nigerian teachers, is designed to educate and create awareness to the vast tourism industry and get the teaching profession to buy in to the project, targeting Nigerian students at their prime. Teachers Naija TV Reality show, packaged by ANUB Media, had run two sessions with another one, up for public outing in August, 2022, with Topaz Travels exclusively sponsoring the tourism segment which engages housemates on quizzes on Nigerian destinations, culture, industry icons, Nigerian history, traditions, fashion and food. Apart from the support collaboration from Aerovessel Aviation school, foremost boat services firm, Tarzan marines, has promised to expose and provide water tourism experience to the teachers in what may turn out as a cheering multi-collaboration industry effort to market the deep gains of tourism to Nigerian organised teaching profession. The Reality Nijia Teachers show has the backing of Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Nigerian union of Teachers and the Federal Ministry of Education.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…