Bauchi State Police Commissioner, Umar Mamman Sanda, has vowed to sniff out all criminal merchants desperate to make a living at the expense of law-abiding citizens across the state seeking continued collaboration from the members of the public. The assertion was contained in a statement by the Command PPRO, Ahmed Wakili, who stated the suspects were arrested following a swift response by the Rapid Response Squad of the Command led by the RSS commander as a counteroffensive to the activities of Sara Suka hoodlums. The arrest was carried out on 04/04/2022 at Unguwar Hardo/Unguwar Mahaukata within the metropolis at about 2115hrs wherein the hoodlums inflicted injuries and caused damage to the properties of residents in the area. The release contained that during the operation, 20 suspects were arrested in connection to the crime including Usman Aliyu alias Walada aged 20 years of Yakubu wanka behind Zanwa; Hamza Yusuf alias Walke aged 20 years of Yakubu Wanka behind Zanwa; Muslim Yakubu alias Tandu aged 20 years of Yakubu Wanka behind Zanwa and Usaini Musa alias Ababba. Others arrested are Abdullahi idris alias Virus; Huzaifa Yakubu alias Babba; Usman Idris alias Dan Bala; Musa Alhassan alias Engineer; Abubakar A. Abubakar alias Uka; Abdullahi Musa alias Danfulani and Abubakar Isah alias Orji. Also arrested are Isma’ila Hassan alias Bature; Uzaifa Ibrahim alias Dan-nau; Yusuf Bala alias Ba-aske; Yakubu Musa alias Jahili; Sa’idu Ismail alias Nazifatu; Aliyu Abdullahi alias Ballu; Haruna Mohammed alias Maifachi; Haruna Adamu alias Baki; Sulaiman Idris alias Gandu; Nasiru Sale alias Baba and Umar Musa alias Kefas. The PPRO stated that exhibits recovered from the hoodlums included one Tecno mobile phone, four cutlasses and two knives while the CP has directed that all the suspects should be profiled and charged to court. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In another development, on the 15/03/2022 at about 0800hrs, the Command detectives while on routine patrol around Nabordo area of Toro LGA, in a swift response intercepted one Ahmadu Shuaibu aged 40 years alias Ruwaji of Bakin Ruwaji, Toro LGA. A thorough investigation was made and he was found in possession of one AK-47 rifle; 20 rounds of 7.62mm calibre live ammunition; 28 sheep; 31 cows and one dog. During interrogation, the suspect confessed to have bought the prohibited firearm from one Ibrahim in Taraba State. The investigation is ongoing meanwhile the suspect will be charged to court at the conclusion of the investigation. Also, on 01/04/2022 at about 1500hrs the Command detectives acting on credible intelligence mopped up prohibited firearms from different individuals which include one AK-47 rifle, one SMG, one pump-action gun eagle, one G3 rifle, one locally-made SMG, one Dane gun troy, one unserviceable Dane gun, 72 live ammunition and five empty magazines. The Command has further recovered the mopped-up firearms and ammunition from different individuals in various areas within and outside the state. The Commissioner of Police thereby assured law-abiding citizens that the command and other security agencies will not relent on their oars as the Police will not spare any recalcitrant criminals who refuse to toe the line of peace in the State.