Some corps members serving in Ibadan South West Local Government Area of Oyo State have been honoured for their participation in charity work, especially in their community. The event, a dinner, was held at Koko Dome, Cocoa House building in Ibadan, at the weekend, with corps members serving in the local government in attendance, alongside some officials of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Speaking at the event, the president of the Charity Syndicate Group in the local government, Joshua Akinrodoye, said the dinner and award night is the first, tagged, “La Nortche and Caridad,” meaning “a night with charity”. He said the programme was organised to honour some of the corps members who had served with the commitment by working for the cause of charity before their eventual passing out from the scheme, as well as those deserving other categories of the award.  “Being the first of its kind, the major challenge was getting approval from the authorities and to convince them that it is just to honour members that had served well in different areas and not to extort them. “A committee was set up to outline the awards. The first task was to conduct an opinion poll and people were asked to nominate those they felt deserved the honours. Only those that passed the scrutiny stage were allowed to be voted for the awards. “We had categories for the nominees to emerge. The first category was the Instagram poll, nominees had to call their people not just charity members but members of other CDS groups as well to vote for them. Google form was also used and it was mostly accessible to charity members,” he said. Akinrodoye advised other Community Development Service (CDS) groups to embrace the spirit of oneness, work cordially and join hands with the charity group to expand such events to cover Ibadan South West and Oyo State. Speaking on behalf of other awardees, Gbemisola Obasaiki said they were honoured to receive the award in recognition of their support for the charity group in the local government as she also appreciated the organisers for a good outing. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE