The Board of Trustees and Governing Council of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, has appointed Mr Samuel Omotoso as the new substantive Registrar for the university. Mr Omotoso, who is a former Registrar of Dominion University, Oyo State, has had an impressive career as an administrator spanning about three decades. He was a pioneer staff of Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State where he served for 12 years in various capacities, some of which are in the Public Relations, Human Resources, Student Affairs, and Academic Planning Departments. According to a statement made available to newsmen by the university’s spokesman, Mr Ayo Arowojolu, the new registrar, obtained a Higher National Diploma in Secretarial Studies from The Polytechnic Ibadan in 1990; a Postgraduate Diploma in Mass Communication from the University of Ibadan in 1997 and Master Degree in Industrial and Labour Relations from the same university in 1999.  In addition, the new registrar also bagged a Bachelor of Arts degree in English from Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma in 2007 and a Master’s Degree in Social Work from Ladoke Akintola University, Ogbomoso, Oyo State in 2011. He is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) and he hails from Ekiti State. Arowojolu added that the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Chinedum Peace Babalola, had congratulated the new registrar who had since assumed office on April 4 and wished him a successful tenure. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Chrisland University appoints new registrar