Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Mahmood Yakubu, has said his Commission remained committed to the timelines for the conduct of the next general elections despite prevailing security challenges. Yakubu gave the assurance, on Thursday, in Abuja in his remarks at the public presentation of the Strategic Plan (SP) and the 2023 Election Project Plan, (EPP) held in Abuja. The INEC Chairman who disclosed that all steps that would promote the integrity of the electoral process and inspire voters’ confidence were being taken however identified security threats as a big encumbrance. Yakubu said with the cooperation of relevant security agencies and the vigilance of all Nigerians, the security challenge would be surmounted and the elections would be conducted, unhindered. He appealed to prospective voters who participated in the Continuous Voters Registration to pick their Permanent Voters Cards ahead next general elections. He said: “We have carefully listened to the demand of Nigerians for seamless processes, particularly with regard to enhanced voter education, better distribution of voters to polling units, quality training of election personnel, the functionality of electronic devices, improved logistics, prompt commencement of polls, availability of assistive devices for persons with disability at polling units and greater transparency in result management.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We are also aware of the security challenges and their impact on the electoral process. We will continue to engage early and intensely with the security agencies to ensure the safety of our personnel and materials, accredited observers and the media and, above all, the voters. Clearly, these are challenging times but we are determined that the election must hold in 2023. “However, this is a shared responsibility. INEC plays a critical role but the Commission alone cannot deliver the elections we all desire. I, therefore, appeal to all Nigerians to join hands with us in ensuring that we make a success of the process.” The INEC Chairman who revealed that the next general elections would be conducted in 1,491 constituencies nationwide made up of 1 presidential constituency, 109 senatorial districts, 360 federal constituencies, 28 governorship elections and 993 state constituencies further disclosed that the process would engage
an estimated one million electoral officials (both permanent and temporary or ad hoc staff) deployed to 176,846 polling units in 8,809 Wards and 774 Local Areas. He noted that the essence of the Strategic Plan 2022-2026 and the 2023 Election Project Plan was to put before Nigerians an exhaustive plan by the Commission to guarantee a seamless electoral process drawing from lessons of the last general elections. “The Strategic Plan 2022-2026 and the 2023 Election Project Plan drew lessons from and thoroughly reviewed, the level of implementation of the last plans. They build on the successes of the preceding plans, especially in the planning and conduct of the 2019 General Election as well as off-cycle and bye-elections. “Against the backdrop of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the current security situation in the country, both plans had to prioritise the institutionalisation of the Commission’s processes for the effective delivery of its mandate by focusing on capacity-building, the promotion of professionalism, encouraging greater synergy among departments, improving efficient utilisation of resources, increased deployment of technology as well as greater sensitivity to threats to the electoral process as well as election personnel and infrastructure. “These concerns are reflected in the Plan’s five strategic objectives, each of which identified several key actions, key activities and key outcomes that constitute a broad guide to the vision of the Commission to provide electoral operations, systems and infrastructure to support the delivery of free, fair, credible and inclusive elections. “The Plan also forms the basis for the Election Project Plan which focuses on five key objectives identified by the Commission as critical for the successful conduct of the 2023 General Election.” National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, who was represented by Sanusi Galadima, commended INEC on the introduction of the Bimodal Voters Accreditation System, (BIVAS) which he noted has boosted the credibility of the electoral process. He assured the Commission of the commitment and support of security agencies toward peaceful election. Seray Jah, Country Director of International Foundation for Electoral Systems (lFES) who was represented by Obaje Ukeh, IFES deputy country director said the foundation was determined to sustain its support to INEC for the success of the forthcoming election. He submitted that the five-year plan and the election project plan would act as a road map that will provide focus and guidance for INEC to succeed in achieving its mandate by ensuring seamless conduct of the 2023 general election. He said: “The launch of the SP and EPP serves as a milestone in lNEC’s preparation for the upcoming 2023 general elections and lFES stands ready to continue its support to the commission for the success of the election. “lFES over the years has supported and continues to support the commission in the area of training, electoral operations, voter education and its gender and inclusion efforts. National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party, (ADP) who doubles as Chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Engineer Yabagi Sani, commended INEC for its efforts towards improving the country’s electoral process while assuring of cooperation of IPAC. He said: “Today we have witnessed yet another very significant development in the commendable efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC to fine-tune the operations of the electoral process in Nigeria for greater service delivery. It is also an occasion for the manifestation of the unfolding trend of the application of science, technology and proactive prognosis, planning and solutions to challenges and situations even before they manifest. “The 2022-2026 strategic plan and the 2023 election project plan as products of comprehensive review of the editions of the 2017-2021 strategic plan and the 2019 election project plan are reflections of efforts at critical assessments and reappraisal with a view to improving on strategies and conduct of transparent and acceptable elections in Nigeria.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs We are committed to timelines, success of 2023 elections― INEC chairman Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa We are committed to timelines, success of 2023 elections― INEC chairman We are committed to timelines, success of 2023 elections― INEC chairman