The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has commenced training for no fewer than 100 youths in its sustainable agricultural development training scheme in a bid to generate employment opportunities and banish poverty in the society. Also, the NDE has empowered financially youths who have completed the sustainable agricultural development training as start-up capital to further their livelihood in agriculture through livestock and crop production. Speaking during the flag-off of the programmes in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, the Director General of NDE, Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, noted that the Federal Government was determined to provide a source of living for the teeming unemployed youths through deliberate efforts across all sectors including in agriculture. Represented by the state NDE coordinator, Mustapha Saliu Kayode, the DG explained that the three-week training for the 100 youths would include two weeks of experiential training and the remaining week for activities at the adaptive farm towards exposing the youths to modern farming techniques.  While advising the beneficiaries of the training programme to be committed and concentrate on acquiring more knowledge that would help their lives and enhance their income, he called on the beneficiaries of the N100,000 start-up loan to pay back so for others to be part of the scheme. According to him, ”It is on this note that I wish to congratulate the beneficiaries of SADTS training to avail yourselves this great opportunity so as to increase your knowledge and enhance your income generating potentials. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “In the same vein, the potential loans beneficiaries should note that the loan will have a moratorium of six months before they start paying back and it is repayable in three years so that other people could benefit as well. “The loan will empower them to engage in agricultural production both in livestock and crop production along its value chain, that is, production, processing, packaging, marketing and consumption in which they have comparative advantage.” Speaking, the assistant director of the rural employment department of NDE headquarters, Mrs Beatrice Oruoyehun, noted that the training and disbursement of the capital was part of the efforts of the government to raise entrepreneurs in agriculture sector for the growth of the nation’s economy. She informed them that the loan is expected to be paid back within three years with nine per cent of interest rate, adding that qualified and competent resource persons have been engaged to expose them to the best possible way of improving their lives and that of family members through agriculture. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Ekiti NDE trains, empowers youths in modern agric practises Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Ekiti NDE trains, empowers youths in modern agric practises