Men of the Nigeria Police in Jigawa have arrested a 25-year-old man, Saminu Muntari, for allegedly stabbing a farmer, Murtala Alhassan, to death over a firewood issue. Police spokesman, ASP Lawan Shiisu, stated in Dutse on Monday that the deceased had challenged Muntari on April 15 for trespassing into his farm to fetch firewood. He explained that Muntari later went to the residence of the deceased and stabbed him with a knife for challenging him over the cutting of firewood from his farm without authority. ASP Shiisu added that the victim died on the spot. “On April 16, the District Head of Kwalam Village in Taura Local Government Area informed the police that one Murtala Alhassan of Kaura Village noticed that one Saminu Muntari trespassed into his farmland and cut firewood. “That Alhassan enquired from Muntari why he cut firewood from his farm without his consent.  “Later in the day, Muntari went to the house of Alhassan and stabbed him with a knife on the right side of his chest as a result of which he died on the spot. “Muntari also stabbed an eyewitness, Sunusi Nasiru, on his left hand for attempting to apprehend him,’’ the police spokesman stated. According to him, upon receipt of the report, the police moved to the scene and took the eyewitness to Ringim General Hospital for treatment. The deceased was confirmed dead by a medical doctor at the same hospital. Shiisu added that the remains of the deceased were later released to his family for burial. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Man stabs farmer to death in Jigawa over firewood tango