Sensational musician, j BOLD says doing music requires a lot of hard work, determination, and sacrifices. j BOLD stated this while discussing the general perception that musicians are very rich. The gifted singer noted that music is a lucrative business, however, it gulps money, too. “Music is definitely a very lucrative business, no doubt. But it takes a whole lot of hard work, determination, sacrifices and of course a lot of money to make money in the industry,” he said. Speaking further, j BOLD added that not all musicians have the capacity to make it big in the Nigerian music industry. “Unfortunately, not everyone has the financial capacity to invest and make much money or make it big in the industry,” he stipulated. j BOLD, who recently released his new single titled ‘Steps’, also disclosed that late songwriter and record producer OJB Jezreel is part of the people who inspired him to venture into music professionally. The stunning singer also disclosed that, aside from OJB’s inspirational words, his personal life experiences and some of his childhood memories contributed to why he pursued music as a career.  In his words; “First, I’d say life experiences and their memories, mostly while growing up, sparked my inspiration.” “And second, the late legendary OJB Jezreel of blessed memory. Met that man in 2008 at the MTN Project Fame West Africa inaugural season audition ground in Lagos, Fantasyland, Ikoyi to be precise.” “Fortunately, I was auditioned by him, unfortunately, I wasn’t picked, but this man encouraged me to keep,” j BOLD said. j BOLD’s latest single, ‘Steps’, is a gospel Reggae track with a blend of Afrobeats. The song is a prayer song for everyone who wants strength, tenacious winsome courage, and God’s intervention in life. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Music takes a lot  Music takes a lot Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Music takes a lot Music takes a lot