The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nominations of four Executive Commissioners of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC). The confirmation of the nominees followed the consideration of a report by the Committee on Petroleum Resources (Upstream). Senator Patrick Akinyelure submitted the report on behalf of the Chairman of the Committee, Senator Albert Bassey Akpan. Those confirmed include Dr Nuhu Habib (North West – Kano State), Executive Commissioner, Development and Production; and Dr Kelechi Onyekachi Ofoegbu (South-East, Imo State), Executive Commissioner, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning.  Others were Capt. Tonlagha Roland John (South-South, Delta State), Executive Commissioner, Health, Safety, Environment and Community; and Mr Jide Adeola (North-Central, Kogi State), Commissioner, Corporate Services and Administration. Akinyelure, in his presentation, said that the appointments of the nominees satisfied the requirements of Sections 11 and 18 (1-5) of the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021. He stated that the nominees possess the requisite qualifications, leadership qualities and comportment to discharge the statutory duties and functions of the various offices. Akinyelure disclosed that there was no petition or adverse reports received by the panel against any of the nominees. “The nominees are “fit and proper persons,” Senator Akinyelure told his colleagues. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Senate confirms four Buhari  Senate confirms four Buhari Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Senate confirms four Buhari  Senate confirms four Buhari