Airtel Nigeria and Konga, an e-commerce platform, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to deepen the digital and online retail landscape in the country. The MoU was signed at the Airtel headquarters in Lagos, late last week. Airtel Chief Commercial Officer, Mr Godfrey Efeurhobo, said that the MoU would further demonstrate commitment of the telecommunications company toward providing opportunities and partnerships. Efeurhobo said it was an important step to make online and offline offerings more accessible and affordable for everybody. “The MoU with Konga is important to us because it demonstrates our commitment to create opportunities and partnerships that will enrich the lives of our customers and empower them to fulfill their full potential. “The occasion is also significant as it offers our resolve to make life better, enjoyable and fun for our over 50 million customers as we connect them to places, services, offerings, people and opportunities that can transform their lives. “Our overreaching agenda is transforming lives and enabling digital and financial inclusion, while the partnership with Konga is important in making online and offline services affordable. “We are building quality as well as pioneering and inspiring a new way that will position us as the preferred partner in everything digital, e-commerce, entertainment, lifestyle, entrepreneurship and sports,” he said. Konga Chief Executive Officer, Mr Nick Imudia, said that the MoU was one of the company’s strategic partnerships aimed at creating a viable e-commerce ecosystem. “This is one of the most strategic partnerships in which we believe will create an ecosystem where millions of customers can have access to our products. “We believe that we are the e-commerce guru, and Konga as an indigenous company will be giving strong offerings to customers,” Imudia said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.