MANY Nigerians in different parts of the country are counting their losses from properties damaged due to strong winds that have accompanied the onset of the rains. The phenomenon of having the first rains as windstorms is not unusual. However, some experts have offered some explanations as to why the occurrence has to be this way.  Damages here and there Across various locations in Nigeria, there have been reports of rooftops, buildings and vehicles that were damaged following windstorms that accompanied the first rains in those locations. In Owerri, the Imo State capital in Southeast Nigeria, on Friday, a windstorm pulled down a billboard mounted at the popular Mbaise park along Mbaise/Egbu road which descended on the two buses and a Sienna vehicle belonging to two transport companies. Other properties worth millions were destroyed.  At the busy Kudirat Abiola Way in Lagos, just as a heavy downpour was easing off a large billboard came crashing down on the road, last week Wednesday. A tricycle and two vehicles were damaged in the process. In the north-central state of Niger, the spokesman of the Coalition of Shiroro Associations (COSA), Mr Salis Sabo, declared that no fewer than 11 persons were injured, just as about 38 houses have collapsed during the windstorms that occurred in the first rain of the year last Friday. The affected area was Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.  An explanation for the windstorms It is not uncommon or unusual to have strong winds accompanying the first rains of the year, Dr. Olaniran Matthew, a senior research fellow of the Institute of Ecology and Environmental Studies, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, has said. He told Nigerian Tribune that numerous researches have shown that strong wind shear and squall lines, together termed rainstorms are a common weather phenomenon during pre-wet season. The pre-wet season falls during the months of March to April. N CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said that these strong winds ensure a quicker moistening of an already dust-affected Boundary Layer and lower half of the troposphere over the entire West African sub-region. “It has also been well-documented that rainstorms at the beginning of the wet season are a threat to urban centres as they directly affect buildings and infrastructure. “Consequently, studies have established that the onset of wet season in Nigeria is determined by the early or late occurrence of these storms, and the amount of annual/seasonal rainfall to be expected essentially depends on the time and strength (intensity and frequency) of the moisture build-up within the boundary lines and the relative dryness or moistness of the African Easterly Jet.” Matthew added that the frequent storms witnessed in recent times suggest “an indication of abundant rainfall during the subsequent raining season; that is an indication of a very wet 2022 where extreme rainfall events such as torrential rainfall and flooding could be expected.” He said the frequent storms are also “an evidence of climate change impacts on inter-annual variability in rain-wind system” that will “manifest in increased frequency of extreme weather events such as rainstorms.” In his own opinion, the activities of local traditionalists to withhold impending rain from falling could also result in thunderstorms and heavy rains according to a principle known as Le Chatelier’s principle. He stated that “Going by the popular Le Chatelier’s principle, any artificial alteration to the natural rain-wind system could results in the occurrence of heavy rainstorms and thunders as being witnessed lately. I hereby propose that this insinuation should be further investigated and documented.”  The NIMET perspective Wasiu Ibrahim, a meteorologist with  Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET), agreed that the onset of the rainy season is usually characterised by strong winds. He said the winds are “not uncommon. It is a general thing. For this year, I don’t think it is unusual.” Giving his explanation for the strong winds, he said: “When the rains come in, it is always characterised by thunderstorms and squalls. Before now, the predominant winds were the north-easterlies. That is the one that brings dust from the north region. Now we have a scenario where we are changing from that to the south-westerly winds, that is the maritime winds. When the change happens, it brings moisture into the country and gives us those thunderstorms. At the beginning of every onset, it has been established as a fact in this zone, there will be thunderstorms and strong winds. That’s the way it is and will continue to be except climate change changes it.”  Need for precaution “We just have to prepare ourselves. This is nature,” Ibrahim observed. He said that there are certain precautions individuals, governments and organisations can take to forestall damage from windstorms. “It applies to different sectors. For the general public, we need to know we have the rains now. While we can have intense rain that brings flash flooding, all we have to do is to clear our gutter ways and ensure they are clear to there will be a free flow of water. This will cause there to be fewer floods or no floods at all. “We should also encourage having shrubs in our homes and surroundings. The practice of flooring everywhere should be discouraged. Vegetation will checkmate flood by allowing water to percolate, instead of having everything as run-off.” For the government, he advised public sensitisation to be carried out. “People should be reminded to clear gutters and public waste collectors should be up and doing to keep drainage free of debris,” he noted. Ibrahim added that the general public and certain industries should pay attention to NIMET weather forecasts as these serve as an advisory. “All sectors whether aviation or construction should take note of the forecasts. If they come to us, we can let them know when the weather will be conducive for their operations. “The advisories we give are for them to take precautions and to make the best decisions. They are impact-based forecasts. “Farmers need to take note of the forecasts so that they do not farm until the onset of rains. We need to plan with the weather; it is natural.”