Sanmi Alegbeleye has proved to many people that one could be useful in ministry irrespective of his/her physical condition. Alegbeleye is an author and leader of Better Life Drama Group. In this interview with SEYI SOKOYA, the Ondo State-born talented faith-based movie producer speaks about life as a visually impaired person, his impact on the growth of the gospel and his current project.  YOU are an author of two books. How were you able to achieve this despite being a visually-impaired person? It is through the inspiration of God. I believe there is no one that God cannot use. Though I am visually-impaired, God has been helping me to achieve great things in life despite my situation. Meanwhile, I don’t see my predicament as a big issue because I do not see myself as a liability. I can do what able-bodied people can do and even better through the help of God. I was not slack when God revealed the revelation to write books to me; the first books I wrote were “Fallen from Perfection” and “God’s Intervention for Divine Breakthrough.” God also supported me with good people to achieve my desires in the world of intellectual works. I cannot forget the help of my dear brother, Mr Olayiwola Osotunyi; Pastor Victor Adetoro and some of my colleagues who are physically-challenged, in achieving our dreams.  How did you lose your sight? I was not born blind; I was almost 17 when I lost my sight. I have finished my primary education, but I had to repeat my primary education at the school of the blind in Owo, Ondo State starting from October 25, 1995 when it was confirmed medically that I had lost my sight. It was a challenging experience for me because I was expected to have completed my junior secondary school education at that stage. However, I took courage to start my life afresh as a blind person. It all started like a joke. I noticed my sight was becoming blurry gradually and my mother was already very old. To feed was difficult and because she had no money to take me to the hospital for medical attention, my condition became critical. Though my mother tried, most times she would give me the proceeds of her farm to buy eye drops. My mother who is a farmer was not financially buoyant I am her last born. She was very old and my elder ones were not financially buoyant too; so, we go to the farm together, we found it difficult to eat. Meanwhile, there is nothing God cannot do. I have not lost hope on regaining my sight. Whether I receive my sight or not, I will still become what God wants me to be. As it is now, I am an educationalist: a graduate of Guidance and Counselling from Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba, Akoko, Ondo State. There are some of my friends also who are visually impaired that are successful in their various disciplines. We have proved clearly that we can do better than able-bodied persons through our God’s given talents.   So, at what point did you turn your disability to ability? I have always loved to do the work of God while in school. I joined a fellowship and subsequently, I became an author of books which have impacted many lives. I later headed several fellowships in schools I attended; the experience was awesome. This energised my passion for the work of God to the extent of venturing into drama production.  What informed your passion for drama production? Tell us about your new project? This is another gift God blessed me with. I refused to be an idle person, likewise my colleagues. So, we came up with an initiative to proffer solutions to the current problems of the country. Nigerians need to be reformed and it is the responsibility of all and sundry; so we, the physically-impaired persons came up to give people an idea on how to solve our dear country’s problem. We have invested so much in drama production; in fact, we borrowed millions of naira to make the drama production a success. We are confident that this production will be a masterpiece for a new Nigeria, but unfortunately we have financial challenges to push further for the release of the drama production and we are hopeful the good people of Nigeria can assist in order to spread the work. We are earnestly looking for sponsors to release the work into the market.  What is the title of the project? It is entitled “The Way Out”. It is about the way out from these problems we face as a nation, especially the security challenges and the hardship many Nigerians are subjected to. We cannot continue to rely on the government; we Nigerians can also proffer solutions. So, we are looking forward to the support of the government, corporate organsiations and well-meaning Nigerians on this project to make it a reality. The cast wasn’t a challenge because it was something we practised in the school of the blind. It is just the financial support from people we need, to actualise our dreams.  How would you place yourself as a minister in the vineyard? My primary aim is to do the will of God. I am His servant and I will not hesitate to do His will and whatever He asks me to do. Truly, by the special grace of God, in future, I know that I can still establish a ministry for God. Though I am already working for God, I am still praying that God will reveal Himself to me and call me for His work. But I cannot join the league of some people that use their present situation to set up a church in order to dupe people. Until I get that revelation, I won’t set up anything. I am contended with the work God has placed in my hands. I didn’t venture into drama production on my own thinking, but God ministered to me through divine vision.  Do you wish to own a church? Yes, I have vision to own a church, but I am still praying to God for the divine and great sign; but presently I am under a pastor as an evangelist. I preach to people and I impact lives through my intellectual works.  How is life like in the midst of the physically-impaired? The truth is that the physically-challenged persons are not being treated well in the society, but this has not discouraged us from giving our best to excel. We and the able bodied ones are in the same class; we have same notes, sit for same examinations and it is same results we get, but when we get to the field, in the aspect of seeking for jobs there is problem. When they interview us and we pass, they start questioning how a blind person will carry out a particular task. They feel that employing us will not add any value to their organisation; but this is not true. We handle tasks better than some able bodied persons. There are visually-impaired friends of mine who are doing well as lecturers and lawyers.