Ahead of the 2023 general elections, members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti South federal constituency one at the weekend protested against the alleged moves by the former governor of the state, Ayodele Fayose to impose the party’s House of Representatives candidate on the constituency. The members alleged that the former governor has concluded plans to impose former members of the house of representatives, Segun Adekola for the federal constituency, compromising Ikere, Ise/Orun and Ekiti South-West local government areas. The spokesman of the protesting party members, Kola Adewole noted that the former governor on Saturday in Ise/Orun endorsed the ambition of Adekola, which he said would not augur well for the party ahead of the election. He explained that while they respect the ex- governor’s decision to endorse candidates, “his choices over time had further worsened the party’s chances at the polls rather than strengthen it.” They said they would rather subject the choice of candidate of the party to a credible delegate election, between Adekola and Henrich Akomolafe from Ikere-Ekiti. He said, “For instance, When former governor Ayodele Fayose went to back Bisi Kolawole, Kolawole won the primaries through rigging and you can see how we are losing supporters on a daily basis. “Now, we are saying we want a youth, fresh blood who has credibility and a track record in Akomolafe but again our leader (Fayose) has opted for a political lightweight who lost heavily as a sitting member in 2019. We would not take it.” But Fayose who denied the allegation of imposition said it is within his right to have a preference among the aspirants and that the decision did not foreclose the ambition of others ahead of the primaries. When contacted, Akomolafe said, “he remains ‘unfazed’ but advised ex-governor Fayose who he referred to as his father against working against the will of the people and further worsening the party’s chances because of pecuniary interests.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…PDP members reject  PDP members reject Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…PDP members reject  PDP members reject