25-year-old Kwara State Television (KWTV) will begin a 24-hour live broadcast from Ilorin, the state capital on Monday with local content. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin at the weekend, the state commissioner for Communications, Mr Olabode Towoju, said that the local content would align with the core values and culture of the people of Kwara State. “On February 1, 2022, we were all excited to witness the switch-on of the 24-hour live transmission of KWTV for the first time in 25 years and we were very impressed with the quality of the picture production and sound quality. “The transformation of Kwara TV is an outcome of a critically thought-out process which started with the appointment of a thoroughbred professional as the General Manager. Kwara Television station was established in 1997 by the state government to propagate the activities of the government and the people of the state. “It is a pleasure to witness the commencement of the live transmission of programmes in our one and only television station in Kwara state, the Kwara State Television Authority, popularly known as KWTV. “Likewise, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq has been giving support to the repositioning of Kwara TV and the other two state-owned media houses. “Part of this is seen in the establishment of two new radio stations, Kakakin FM in Ilorin and Nootia FM in Okuta; the 24 hours live broadcast of Radio Kwara and the work done in the Kwara State Printing and Publishing Corporation, the publishers of The Herald Newspapers. “The resolve of the administration of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq is to ensure that the three media houses owned by Kwara state are steadily transformed to the best in the North- Central and ultimately in our dear country, Nigeria. “Viewers of the Kwara State Television are going to enjoy a new and scintillating experience in television broadcasting as the station has lined up an array of locally produced programmes in line with the values of educating, entertaining and enlightening the public. “Feedbacks at my disposal indicate that the Board of Directors of Kwara State Television Authority, chaired by seasoned broadcast journalist and sportsman, Alhaji Hameed Adio, has been rendering quality advice to the management of the station. Also speaking at the occasion, ace broadcaster, Hameed Adio who is the Chairman of the Board of Kwara Television said that the station would have a breath of fresh air, adding “we are ready to showcase all the cultural attributes of Kwara State and ensure that this television station lives up to its core value of being set up to serve the government and good people of Kwara State” Adio commended the state governor for the turnaround of the station describing him as a gamechanger in the state. He also commended the Commissioner, management and staff of the station adding that the commissioner was proactive to the needs of the station. The General Manager of Kwara TV, Mr Olatunde Michaels expressed the readiness to roll out programmes along with the value that the state represents and added that in view of that the station had engaged with the commission of programmes and invited producers who are working to turn around things. He added that the management had created different shows and brought back news in different languages spoken by the people in the state. “We are looking at expanding the scope beyond just content for us, we are looking at opening the window for people to see Kwara state from different perspectives wherever they are around the World,” Olatunde said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE