Lagos State government, on Monday, said that it will initiate proactive measures to curb bullying and auto accidents in both the public and private schools across the state. The state government also promised to increase awareness towards infusing and inculcating safety culture and compliance among the students. The state government gave the pledge at a Safety Initiative Workshop organised by the Lagos Safety Commission, Office of Education Quality Assurance in collaboration with School Run Academy with the theme; “Creating A Safety Culture and Compliance.” The State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, said that the move by the government was to prevent the repeat of last year December’s incident that claimed lives of three students and injured about 17 others at Babs Fafunwa Millennium School, Ojodu. The commissioner, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr Abayomi Abolaji, said that the state government had started identifying schools on major roads that were prone to auto crash and would ensure the needful was done to prevent reoccurrence of such incident. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Adefissyo noted that the schools on the highway would have speed breakers and traffic lights while officers like Neighborhood Watchers, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Lagos Safety Commission would be engaged to ameliorate the situation. The Director General, Lagos Safety Commission, Mr Lanre Mojola, in his own speech, explained that the whole essence of the Safe School Initiative was to ensure that schools environment across the state were safe while the students were made to cohabit within a conducive learning atmosphere. Mojola stressed safety measures were very important in order to ensure physical safety, disease control, discouraged bullying and alcohol abuse, as well as training the school owners on how to ensure schools were safer, adding that safer schools produced safer children who were the bedrock of the future. “Safer schools produce safer children and safer children are the bedrock of the future. So what we shall be doing is to meet school operators and engage them on how we can make safety the fulcrum of the curriculum within the schools.
How we can ensure that teachers teach basic principles of safety and to ensure children interact at safety environment. “Safety begins with you and zero accident is possible if we all work together and in a safe environment,” he said. Speaking further, the Lagos Safety Commission boss added that the workshop centered on owners of boarding schools in Lagos State as the Commission would soon extend similar exercise to other stakeholders. Others at the event emphasised on high quality standard, quality parenting and community involvement for safety to be achieved, just as they also suggested a systemic approach to manage safety in schools and colleges as well as ensuring total compliance, urging people to see safety as part of daily lives. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Lagos to initiate safety measures to curb accidents in schools Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Lagos to initiate safety measures to curb accidents in schools