Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, on Thursday, said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will focus on more projects, and will not shift his attention away from the State’s numerous ongoing projects. It would be recalled that the Governance Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, during the week endorsed Sanwo-Olu for re-election. Omotoso stated this while speaking on “Lagos State In Focus,” an MITV programme, noting that the endorsement was based on Governor Sanwo-Olu’s remarkable achievements in projects execution, even as he added that such gesture was not unexpected, because, according to him, Sanwo-Olu had done well in the state. “The Governance Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision-making body of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, endorsed Sanwo-Olu for re-election, but this will not make the Governor shift his focus away from the state’s numerous projects. “The GAC must have based their decision to endorse Sanwo-Olu on the future of Lagos, as the governor has been building on what his predecessors have done. “The governor is a man of vision, good character and a good party man. The decision to let Sanwo-Olu contest for another term is not about personal glorification; the aim is to deliver for the people of Lagos,” the commissioner said.  On the projects that Sanwo-Olu needed to complete, the commissioner listed them to include: the Blue Line and Red Line rail projects, Lekki-Epe Expressway, General Hospital, Ojo and the many roads in Ikorodu, such as Oba Sekumade Road, Agric-Ishawo Road, Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo Road, and the Regional Road. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said the Fourth Mainland Bridge was also in the works, adding: “The Fourth Mainland Bridge is also in the works.” Omotoso, who also described Sanwo-Olu as a man of integrity, stated that the governor’s response during the COVID-19 pandemic, his infrastructural strides in road construction and transportation management, improvement in schools infrastructure and massive renovation of hospitals, were some of the projects and programmes responsible for the GAC’s decision. He reiterated that the religious community, traders, artisans and other stakeholders were all in support of Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement. Asked for comments on the planned resumption of tolling by the Lekki Concession Company (LCC) at the Ikoyi Link Bridge toll gate, Omotoso said consultations with the stakeholders were still ongoing. “The consultation is to seek the understanding of stakeholders and all those involved. A list of concessions the stakeholders requested for has been tabled. “The company has financial obligations, which must be discharged so that future opportunities for investments in the state, will not be affected,” he said. On the Parks Management Committee, the commissioner explained why the government set up the body, saying it was all to ensure peace. Speaking on the Chrisland School incident, which he described as “a monumental family and societal tragedy, Omotoso said it was all emotionally disturbing for parents, the school and the government.” The Commissioner said the state government’s swift response to the matter was to stop its escalation, with the warning against spreading the video. He, however, declined further comments “because the matter is still under investigation.”