PRESIDENT, Nigerian Baptist Convention, Rev. Dr Israel Akanji, has stated that the church’s rhetoric about politics has changed. This was just as he urged members of the church to join politics ahead of the 2023 general elections. The president, who spoke to newsmen on Tuesday in Lagos, said it is common knowledge that the church was shy of not just publicity but politics. He noted that people often say politics is a dirty game, therefore, members do not go into it and for many years many had kept out of politics. Akanji said the church has discovered that change cannot be effected without being part of the system. Akanji noted further that the church is therefore encouragingand supporting any member going into politics with prayers.  “Our rhetorics have changed about politics. When we see somebody going into politics now, we encourage and pray for the person.We have been encouraging our members to participate in politics. “In those days, we all know that the church was shy of not just publicity but politics. They used to say politics is a dirty game, therefore, do not go into it and for many years many kept out of politics. “But we have discovered that there is no way you can bring a change if you are not part of the system. “We encourage our people to also get registered, have their voter cards, so that they can vote. We have come to that level in this country,” he said. Speaking on the convention with the theme: Entering into Newness with Praise and Thanksgiving (Ps.100:4), Akanji said that the programme would be attended by members of the Baptist family from all over Nigeria, Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada, and other parts of the world. The cleric said that the convention was being conducted “to fellowship with God and with one another through worship and interactions, for spiritual renewal and recommitment as well as reporting of stewardship. ”One major reason for our annual convention is to call upon God in prayer. The Bible says: ‘Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labour in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stand guard in vain’ (Ps. 127:1). “We believe that we need to pray for our country and our world generally. “For our country, we need to pray specifically in the following areas: security situation of the country, economic development and growth, 2023 election and current state of university education in our country,” he said.