The management of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has expressed optimism for a hitch-free examination scheduled for May. The board made this known in its Weekly Bulletin of the Office of the Registrar on Monday, in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that JAMB had scheduled the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to hold between May 6 and May 16. The board said that it was sure to deliver a seamless exercise in its main examination, in all its 757 centres across the country. This, it said, followed the success recorded in the mock- UTME which was held on Saturday, April 9. At the post-examination analysis held to conduct a post mortem of the examination, the Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, disclosed that the mock- examination, conducted in 757 centres across the nation, was held with little or no hitches.  He stated that the board was primed to deliver the most seamless examination ever, come May 6. The statement also quoted the Registrar as advising proprietors of Computer-Based Tests (CBT) centres nationwide, not to rest on their oars, but consolidate on the success recorded in the mock exercise. Oloyede added that the centres must deliver a better outcome in the main examination in May. He reiterated that the mock examination was instituted to principally test its facilities and ascertain its readiness for the main UTME. It was also instituted, he explained, to provide candidates with the opportunity to experience the testing system and how to apply it in the main examination. ”Taking the mock examination had proved to be one of the most effective tests of readiness for the main examination,” Oloyede said. NAN reports that a total of 1.8 million candidates had been registered for this year’s main UTME. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. JAMB optimistic of hitch-free 2022 UTME examination Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway
IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. JAMB optimistic of hitch-free 2022 UTME examination