The Lagos State government has charged the newly recruited teachers in the state numbering 1,000 to take their job with utmost commitment and contribute meaningfully to the state teaching service and the education development as a whole. The chairman of the state’s Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Mrs Elizabeth Olabisi Ariyo, gave the charge at the  commencement of the ongoing induction programme organised for the new teachers in Ikorodu. She said the state government is expecting much from them by performing optimally in their new roles, hence the essence of the induction programme to prepare their minds towards government expectations as they joined the state workforce. Mrs Ariyo, who was represented at the event by Commissioner III, TESCOM, Mr Adeleke Kara, in a statement made available to newsmen by the Head of Public Affairs unit of the commission, Mr Kayode Sutton, congratulated the inductees and informed them that they all have opportunity to rise across ranks on the job including to the position of a tutor general/permanent secretary or board member of the commission. “That is why I’m seeking your total cooperation and civility in all that you do. You must be totally committed to your work. And your ability to adapt to changing situations particularly in the classrooms is very germane, especially with the “new normal” which the Covid-19 pandemic has brought to work environment globally. “So, you must be technically savvy to fit into the 21st Century best practices,” Mrs Ariyo further charged. She added that they must also have to key into the THEMES Agenda of the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu which makes Education and Technology as one of prominent focus areas of the state government. In her own remark at the event, Mrs. Adijat Kuburat Hassan, Commissioner IV, TESCOM, also asked the inductees who have been distributed to schools across the six education districts of the state, to demonstrate their expertise to improve students performances in their examinations and on good character. She said that is the only way to justify their appointments. She, however, noted that the inductees were splitted into three groups for the training with the first group, 308 in number had done theirs in Ikorodu while the rest will have their own  at two different venues simultaneously for five days beggining from Monday, April 11. She said the message for participants across the venues would certainly be the same.