The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), a few hours ago, rejected the newly constituted Kano Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caretaker Committee in obedience to the order of the Federal High Court which restrained the party from tampering with the Kano authentic state executive. INEC directives and rejection have rendered nullity the decision of the PDP to proceed to inaugurate the illegal Caretaker Committee despite the order of the Court and INEC decision. This action of the Commission means that if the PDP does not revert to the authentic executive, the party will not likely have a governorship candidate and parliamentary seat candidates for the 2023 elections. INEC’s position on the matter was contained in a later dated April 6, 2022, and signed by its Secretary. Rose Oriaran-Anthony. The letter which was addressed to the party’s National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, read, “Please refer to your letter Ref. PDP/DOM/GF.2/VOL1M/22-055 dated 30th March 2022 in which you notified the Commission of the decision of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) to appoint a Kano State Caretaker Committee. “This is to draw your attention to an order of Federal High Court, Abuja (suit no. FHC/ABJ/CS/393/2022) which has restrained the commission “from accepting any list of Interim Caretaker Committees” in respect of your Kano State Chapter. “While hoping your party takes note of the order of the Federal High Court, Abuja, please accept the assurance of the Commission’s warm regards.” The PDP had in a March 30, 2022 letter sent the names of the seven-member Kano State Caretaker Committee to the Commission. It listed members of the committee as Alhaji Ibrahim Atta –Chairman; Alhaji Ibrahim Aminu Daniya, Hajiya Ladidi Dangalan; Hon. Aminu Abdullahi Jungau; Mukhtar Mustapha Balarabe, Abdullahi Isa Sulaiman and Barr Baba Lawal Aliyu, as members. The letter was signed by Ayu and the party’s National Secretary, Sen. Samuel Naemeka Anyanwu. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…