The Senior Pastor of Trinity House, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, has beseeched the church to encourage its true and sincere people to go into politics. Pastor Ituah, who is a Chartered Accountant by profession, explained that this is very important as things are not doing well in Nigeria and that the church should not show any political leanings. He made this exclusively known to Tribune Online in an interview on the state of the nation on Tuesday in Lagos. The Pastor noted that the church should get its people into the politics and leadership of the country if truly there is hunger for a transformed nation. “The church should encourage its true and sincere people to go into politics. The church as an organisation should not show any political leanings. “Things are not doing well in Nigeria. We should not deceive ourselves. Our leaders have not done the right thing. This government has not done right. They could have done much better. “But as an organisation, it should encourage its people to get involved in the leadership and politics of Nigeria. “And if they find a leader or politician that is worthy of support, they should not hesitate to lend their support,” he said. Ighodalo also stated that Leadership is not rocket science if there is commitment to do what is right for the benefit of the majority of people. Ituah bemoaned the level of corruption and selfishness among the leaders in the country. He, therefore, urged the leaders to have a mindset of positivity rather than personal aggrandizement. “Leadership is not rocket science if there is commitment to do what is right for the benefits of the majority of people. “So, the first thing our leaders should do is to have that mindset. Most people go into politics today to serve, enrich and empower themselves and that is usually in contradiction with the empowerment and upliftment of the people. “The level of corruption is unbearable. The average leader and politician want to put the money in his pocket. Lack of attention to the needs of the people is unbearable While speaking about his wishes for his 61st birthday, He said making people’s lives better and transforming the country is his goal at the moment. Ighodalo expressed the desire to create opportunities for people around him and the country at large. “At 61,  I want to make people’s lives better. I want to help to transform Nigeria. I want to make the lives of people around me better by creating opportunities for them,” he said.