Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has said he is in the presidential race to win the election. He said Senator Ahmed Tinubu, remained a respected founding leader of the party, like President Muhammadu Buhari and Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu who wanted their project, the All Progressives Congress (APC) succeeded. He said this while fielding questions from Nigerian journalists at the Second Annual GYB Seminar for Nigeria’s Political and Crime Correspondents. Bello said the office of the President would demand real energy from its occupier because it is not a place for anyone to sit but work. The office of the President would demand real energy, “not energy to sit or sleep but energy to work” he told the editors, he added that “I trust myself and my capacity,” and it was a capital no to fear big names in the race. According to him: “I believe in my record and I can do what I’m going to do. I believe in capacity; I respect the founding fathers. From President Muhammadu Buhari, leader of our party down to Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Ogbonnaya Onu, these founding fathers of our party. “But you can never have a building without a foundation. At the same time, that building will never be completed without building on top of the foundation. “A beautiful building will start from the foundation, they have started profoundly. They will be looking out for that young man who have the capacity to build on what they have laid. Speaking about contesting against Tinubu for the APC ticket for the Presidency, he said “I know that there are other champions in the room. If you want to be a champion, get ready to beat the champion. “And I believe that I will defeat the champions to be the champion of APC. Politics generally is a game of numbers, of which democracy is about representative majority as far as the politics or democracy is concerned. “I represent the majority of the Nigerian youths and also women and that was why when I was saddled with the responsibility, to draw in people into the no party, the Party chose me to lead or chair the committee. “The committee drove over 41 million members to the party, so we have that record for us. “Of course, they saw the founding Fathers when they tasked us to do the job of bringing in people to the party. “So, we the builders of the party, Nigerians found it very interesting and they decided to heed to our advice and cause today we have so we have equally seen the performance of the man that was leading or championing the tribes, myself and the performance of APC led by President Muhammadu Buhari.