Kano State Hisbah Board has arrested eight young men and women suspected of phone snatching and other criminal activities at Al Furqan mosque in Nasarawa GRA. Commander-General of the board, Dr Muhammad Sani Ibn Sina confirmed the arrest to newsmen in Kano. According to him, the eight suspects were arrested in the afternoon and were engaged in using drugs and other intoxicants at the racecourse. He, however, described their action as inappropriate as Islam prohibits Muslims from engaging in immoral acts during the fasting period. Sheikh Ibn Sina then appealed to members of the general public to be more vigilant, and report any suspected person or character to relevant authorities, as Kano State Hisbah Board will not relent in its efforts of sanitizing Kano of all forms of vices. He said the suspects will be handed over to relevant authorities for necessary action.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.