Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State, has adjourned a divorce suit brought before it by a woman, Susan Udeze, against her husband, Arinze Udeze. Susan in her suit alleged that her husband treated her with disdain and never stopped beating her. She added that he failed to be up to his responsibility in the home. The plaintiff stated that she was tired of their cat and dog lifestyle and thus sought an end to their relationship.  The defendant, although in court, chose to speak through his counsel. Susan gave his testimony thus: “My lord, my husband is an ingrate. He had nothing when we met, but I stood by him because I loved him. “We met in 2008 and had our traditional wedding in my village in 2010. “I covered up for him by providing almost all that my family demanded for during our traditional wedding. “I saved and gave him N7,500 which was the demand for my bride price. “I denied myself of some luxuries to make this possible, but he turned against me immediately we got married. “Arinze refused that I had rest of mind. He started complaining of seeing smoke and some other strange things in the house. “He always showed displeasure at everything I did and would complain and nag. “He fought me almost every day. “My husband gave me a bad name in our compound; he told everyone that cared to listen that I was a witch. According to him, I was responsible for his setback,” the plaintiff stated. She added: “My husband hates to have my family members in our home. He is hostile towards them. “He rained curses on me for serving one of my brothers rice when he came visiting us. I prepared the food with my money, but he still fought me. “My lord, I was pregnant with our first child when this occured. Arinze swore that I would die with the pregnancy. “I reported him to my elder brother who mediated in our differences and sought that peace reigned. The plaintiff further explained that “I lost my mother in 2015 and our tradition requires that my husband, like my siblings, was expected to provide a cow each among other things for the burial rite. “When I discussed this with him, he asked me, “Who was my mother that he should commit himself to such expenses?” “I ignored him and gathered money to meet all the expenses for the burial. “His younger brother and two other members of his extended family travelled down to my village with me for the burial rites while he joined us later. “Elders in my family, showing their displeasure at my husband’s shortcoming during the burial, summoned him and his family members to a meeting after the burial, but he refused to honour their invitation. “According to him, it was a taboo that I went for the burial with a cow without his consent. “I packed out of his house in 2016 and moved in with my brother after he made life hellish for me. “One of our children, who was living with him, started limping in one leg after my sister in-law mistakenly gave him an injection on the muscle. He couldn’t walk for months and my husband claimed that my family members and I wanted to use him for ritual. “He insisted I returned to his house to take care of the child and I did. “Arinze started maltreating me immediately I moved back. “He would beat me to a pulp in the middle of the night and send me out. I have slept in the cold on many occasions,” she told the court. in habit of going through my phone. “He saw a message sent to me by one of my male customers wishing me God’s blessing in the new month and he started accusing me of infidelity. “I tried to explain to him who the person was but he refused to listen. I, therefore, deleted the message from my phone for peace to reign. “He became furious when he realised I had deleted the message because his plan was to use it to blackmail me. “He beat me blue black in the middle of the night and threatened to pour acid on me and kill me. “I ran to my aunt’s place that night and she got him arrested by the police the following morning. He was in the police custody for days. “Arinze threatened me the more after he was released and returned home. “He told me the battle line was drawn and frustrated me the more. “I packed my belongings and moved out of his house when I realised he was bent on snuffing life out of me. “I got a new apartment but he still didn’t let me be. “My husband will come both to my house and shop to fight me. He will turn my shop upside down and send my customers away. “He’s threatening to throw me out of the shop I rented by myself and have been paying the rent. “My lord, I pray that you end our marriage today and grant me custody of our children. “I also entreat this honourable court to make him responsible for their welfare. “My lord, I further plead that the court restrained him from coming to my place of abode and shop to threaten and fight me,” Susan concluded. Ruling, the court president, Mrs S.M Akintayo, adjourned the case for further hearing.   