The Director-General of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hafsat Abiola, has said that Yahaya Bello has proven to be a unifier just like her father MKO Abiola did during the 1993 presidential election. She said part of the reason why she is supporting Yahaya Bello for presidency is that he shares the same vision with her father in the area of addressing the poverty challenge facing the country. Hafsat Abiola disclosed this while briefing journalists on Sunday on the developments on the campaign team. She said that a Yahaya Bello presidency will not have individuals as Godfathers, instead, all Nigerians will be his Godfather and Godmothers.  “He understands that his power is from the people, he is not afraid of the people, he wants to be engaging and he has been engaging with the people,” she said. She narrated her interactions with her father on eradicating poverty, noting that Yahaya will build on that vision to reduce poverty and create wealth for the Nigerian people. “Before my father ran for office in 1993, there was one night he came into my bedroom. He is always used to travelling all over the world, you all know this, I’m sure that those who are old enough to know him, know about this. He was an international businessman and he used to travel a lot. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “If he were trying to see his children in the hours when they were awake, because of his schedules, it might be that he will not see them at all. So this time he came into my bedroom around 1 am, and he sat at the tip of my bed, and I remember waking up looking at him, saying, daddy why do you look so sad, he said he was used to going around and now he sees children eating out of garbage cans, this was maybe 1991 when he said that, and it was deeply troubling to him. “The poverty that my father saw then is even deeper today. I know that under this current administration, we have been able to bring 20 million people out of poverty because Nigeria, as you remember was the poverty capital of the world with about 87 million persons in poverty and now we no longer have that disgraceful title because we’ve been able to move 27 million people out of poverty under this current administration. “But 70 million persons that remain poor today is way more than what MKO was traumatised by in 1991. So you can’t help but wonder can we not do this better. “And I really feel that this candidate that I’m representing, Governor Yahaya Bello is the candidate that can do that. “When I look at Yahaya Bello, I see something that I saw also with my father, which is that he’s a unifier, he believes in Nigeria. We need a Nigerian leader that believes in Nigerians, that believes in all Nigerian people, and will fight for all Nigerian people, MKO was such a man, this governor Yahaya Bello is also such a person,” she stated. Hafsat Abiola said that in Governor Bello’s Cabinet in Kogi State, all the six geopolitical zones are represented and it is dominated by young people. “This person that I’m representing today fights For young people, 95 per cent of his appointees are young people, he doesn’t just use them to campaign, he puts them in his structures with opportunities to have dignified work, even look at his campaign Council, you can see that we are not old people. “I will not support this man if I do not truly believe that after my father died and that promise he had made to Nigerians was left unfulfilled, I will not support him the way am supporting him today if I do not believe he is the person that will help us fulfil that promised. “And he has signalled that intention in a very clear and compelling way by saying that MKO Abiola spoke for hope in 1993 and he has said that he will adopt that platform in 2023. “The Nigerian people want a leader that unifies us, who sees our competencies and would use us in different roles based on our competencies and not based on our ethnicity, then we know that all these problems we say Nigeria has are problems that would be solved one after the other. “What I owe my father is what I will continue to do what I do which is to try to honour his promise to the Nigerian people that they will say farewell to poverty and to my mind this candidate is the one that can us do that,” she added. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Why Yahaya Bello’s presidency will benefit masses ― Hafsat Abiola Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Why Yahaya Bello’s presidency will benefit masses ― Hafsat Abiola Why Yahaya Bello’s presidency will benefit masses ― Hafsat Abiola