A 47-year-old police officer identified as one Michael has lost his life after rounds of sex with her lovebird in a popular hotel at Oke-Ado in Ibadan. The victim, as reliably informed arrived at the hotel at about 3:15 pm on Sunday and paid for a short time. His partner, according to an inside source later joined him in one of the rooms, where he lodged. However, a few hours after the bookings, the woman rushed out of the room, half-dressed to draw the attention of the workers and other guests around to her lover’s state of unconsciousness. One of the workers who preferred anonymity said, “I don’t know her, but the way she was talking after the incident confirmed her as a widow while the dead police officer was her benefactor.” She claimed to have lost her husband in 2014 and the late officer has been responsible for the payment of her children’s school fees for more than five years among other house chores. The woman was quoted to have lamented, “Where will I start again? He was my helper. My benefactor. “He was like my husband because we used to see him every Sunday; apart from once a week. “He responded to anything I asked him.” The hotel source said they have intimated Iyaganku Police Division about the incident. Efforts to reach the State Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifeso at the time of filing this report proved abortive. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military.