Ahead of next year’s election, the camp of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state on Tuesday received a boost as an industrialist and philanthropist, Mr Ayotunde Bally, joined the party’s fold in the state. Bally who was received into the party by the chieftains of the party in Ondo, headquarters of Ondo West Local Government Area of the state, said he joined the ruling party in the state to offer unhindered support to the party and the Governor Rotimi Akeredolu led administration to move the state forward. He commended governor Akeredolu for his development-driven policies and programmes for the state, adding that he was joining APC to add value to the party. He said the governor has shown zeal, commitment and capacity to provide good governance, adding that it behoves the people of the state, at this point in time, to support the governor to uplift the fortunes of the state and meet the desires of the people. He said “I am not coming to APC because of any ambition to contest but to show the world that you can be in politics without ambitions. I am in APC to help build the party, not to contest. “My decision today is in response to the pleadings of my admirers and the touching request by my followers and the leadership of APC in Ondo. I am an ambassador of the youths and I will continue to support the growth of the youths.”  “What I am doing today, therefore, is to publicly declare my APC membership which is borne out of my desire to contribute my quota to the development of this community” A Chieftain of the party and Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mrs Omolola Fagbemi, described Bally as a promising leader in Ondo who has been contributing to the development of youths in Ondo. Fagbemi said the young international businessman, has carried out a series of empowerment activities for the people of Ondo in the last few years, saying the young man will add more value to the party. The event was attended by party chieftains including the Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mrs Omolola Fagbemi, Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Hon. Wale Akinlosotu, Special Adviser to the governor, Dr Jibayo Oyebade. Also at the event, a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Abiola Makinde, APC Ondo West chairman, Mr. Ebenezer Akinsulire, the Odofin of Ondo kingdom, Chief Akin Olaniyan, among others. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE