Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State and former president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, are standing resolutely on the outcome of the former military president, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida-brokered consensus arrangement for northern presidential aspirants under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Both of them were picked as the north’s consensus candidates out of four aspirants that were said to have initially subjected themselves to the process. The others are Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and former bank managing director, Muhammed Hayatu-Deen, both of whom have now dissociated themselves from the initiative. It has also been criticized by other stakeholders in the north including former Jigawa State governor, Sule Lamido, who described the arrangement as selfish. However, both Mohammed and Saraki have now come out in strong defence of the consensus arrangement and the choice made by the Babangida-led northern elders. The Bala Mohammed Campaign Organisation on Sunday also absolved the former military president of any blame, explaining the role he played in the process.  The organisation advised those who are not happy with the outcome or did not participate in the process to press on with their individual ambitions rather than throwing mud. Speaking for the Bauchi governor, his campaign spokesman, Prof. Udenta Udenta said: “On Wednesday 20th April, 2022 Gen. Ibrahim Babangida GCFR, through the channel of the platform he inaugurated. announced Sen. Bala Mohammed and Sen. Bukola Saraki as the selected Consensus Aspirants. The Sen. Bala Mohammed Presidential Campaign Organisation will thus like ta place on record its eternal gratitude to President Ibrahim Babangida, GCFR and the entirety of Northern Elders who assisted him in reaching this decision. “Our deep appreciation to them stems less from the fact that Sen. Mohammed is among the two selected consensus aspirants and more from their Labour of thankless patriotic duty and uncommon leadership in attempting to bring order and coherence to bear in a condition of acute political uncertainty and fractured political process. We thank you our leaders from the depth of our hearts. “We wish to place it on record that Gen. Babangida never approached nor lobbied anybody to superintend the process that will lead to the emergence of a Consensus Presidential Aspirant. “Rather it was the group of Presidential aspirants made up of Sen. Bala Mohammed, Rt Hon Aminu Tambuwal. Sen. Bukola Saraki and Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen collectively, freely and willingly approached Gen Babangida to help select from amongst themselves a Consensus Presidential Aspirant. “The above four named individuals not only initiated the Consensus Arrangement on their own volition but also agreed to fully and unequivocally abide by the decision that Gen Babangida will arrive at in consultation with other elders as well as accept, honour the steps and procedures he will deploy in arriving at any decision. “We, therefore, reject the current insinuations in the media from some quarters that purport that Gen Babangida and the elders either did not consult very widely or imposed a decision on an unwilling band of presidential aspirants. “Gen Babangida and elders deserve nothing but commendation for the conclusions they reached and the outcome of the Consensus exercise by anybody who believes in the tenets of truth, honour and integrity. Political ambition should not and cannot be a condition precedent to cast overboard these time-honoured verities and inviolable norms and ask those who are desecrating these values to have a sober rethink. “The Sen. Bala Mohammed Campaign Organization will not join issues with anybody on the question of the Consensus Arrangement because the truth needs no further protection from its traducers but will rather press on in rallying the nation around its progressive “Nigeria First” Governance Vision on the heels of the successful execution of the Consensus Arrangement. “The Campaign Organization, however, advises all those who are not happy with the result of the selection process or who did not participate in it to focus on their individual political trajectories without let or hindrance and not muddy the political waters any further. “Let us clarify to the millions of members and supporters of the PDP that the consensus arrangement was not designed as an end in itself but as means to an end; not as a goal with a limited regional vision or appeal but as first in the series of processes and exercises aimed at building inclusiveness, harmony and unity within the ranks of the Presidential Aspirants in the PDP. “It’s on record that the participants in the process toured the whole country together and reached out to critical political stakeholders in the party including its elected governors to explain the meaning and purpose of the arrangement and to seek their buy-in into the process if possible. It is commendable that South East Presidential aspirants have also acceded to this model and we wish them success in their current endeavours in this regard. “The Sen. Bala Mohammed Presidential Campaign Organization believes strongly that the search for consensus, unity, solidarity and shared vision among the PDP presidential aspirants is a worthy move and a patriotic venture that aims at reducing unnecessary tension, acrimony and unhealthy diatribe among competitors and restore back to our politics the culture of reaching common ground, the reduction of the politics of bitterness and the respect of all shades of political opinion. “Even if the process doesn’t secure all of its set goals at the end of the day, meaning that every aspirant participates in the Presidential primaries. It would have imbibed in all aspirants the culture of placing the group above the self in the party’s shared vision of the future and in accepting the very results of the primary election. “For the avoidance of doubt, Sen. Bala Mohammed will build on the success of the Consensus Arrangement and unfold his grand ‘Nigeria First’ Governance Vision in the coming days and weeks.” In the same way, Saraki hail the process that selected him and Mohammed as the northern PDP consensus candidates as a welcome development. Speaking through his media aide, Yusuf Olaniyonu, he maintained that the decision was based on equity, justice and the need for inclusion. “It is a welcome development. The process that eventually led to this decision cannot be faulted. It was painstaking, thorough and transparent. One needs to commend and appreciate the elders who worked to actualise the process. May Allah bless them all. “Their decision was based on equity, justice, and the need for inclusion of all. Yes, one consensus candidate has not emerged but they have initiated a process which can help the party later on. The process is a work-in-progress. One person will still emerge from the ongoing process here in the North. “The South also has an example to emulate in deciding on the aspirants that should proceed to the primaries considering the zones that have not produced a President before like the South East. A nation like Nigeria with all the current problems needs consensus building as a way of healing the nation and enlarging grounds of co-operation, unity and understanding,” Saraki stated. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE