Political pressure groups in Adamawa State have pulled resources together and purchased gubernatorial nomination forms for the State Governor, Umaru Ahmadu Fintiri to contest the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) guber seat for a second term. The groups are Gamzaki Traders Association, Gaskiya Youths Forum, PDP Coalition Support Group, ATM Adamawa Agenda, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Labour Union, Fintiri Continuity, and Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), among others. Speaking after receiving the form in the Banquet Hall, Government House Yola on Friday, Governor Umaru Fintiri appreciated the groups for buying him the PDP governorship nomination form. The Governor described the gesture as unique as it has made his consultations easier adding that the move will spur him to continue the good works across the nooks and crannies of Adamawa. The Governor said that “You have made my consultations easier and I will continue to show appreciation. This Special gesture will no doubt spur me to put more effort to better the lives of the people.” Umaru Fintiri disclosed that he will continue to carry out his consultations with the traditional rulers and people across the state towards making his declaration to run for a second term in office in the 2023 elections. The Speaker of Adamawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Aminu Iya Abbas revealed that the 14 PDP members of the state Assembly had earlier wanted to buy the nomination form for the Governor as they have contributed money to that regard. In his remarks, the Special Adviser to the Governor on political matters, Alhaji Abdurrahman Bobboi said that the people of Adamawa State have accepted Governor Fintiri to run again as his administration has touched their lives. Mr Rodney Nathan, who spoke on behalf of the organized labour said that it was not accidental that they purchased the nomination form for Governor Fintiri as the government under his watch has performed exceptionally well in the state. In an interview, the member representing Song – Fufore in the House of Representatives, Dr Mustafa Sa’idu acknowledged that the event has shown that the Adamawa people are hundred per cent behind Governor Fintiri. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Groups buy PDP nomination  Groups buy PDP nomination Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Groups buy PDP nomination  Groups buy PDP nomination