The pharmaceutical council of Nigeria (PCN), on Friday said, it has sealed 378 pharmaceutical premises including stores and shops in Taraba due to illega operations of owners in the state. Pharm. Stephen Esumobi, the association director of enforcement, disclosed this while briefing journalist in Jalingo. He said, the council have after a one week visit to some local government in the state, observed that so many premises were not registered with the PCN while a large number of others have failed to renew their license. According to him, the move was in line with the federal government policy of streamlining the drug distribution system in Nigeria and promote the rational drug distribution, provision of safe and effective quality medicine down the distribution value chain as well as maintenance and improvement of standards of practice in line with the global best practice among other.  “Our field visit to some local government here in Taraba state revealed that, while there is commendable level of compliance by stakeholders in the state capital, this can not be said of stakeholders across the local government areas. “So many are not registered with the PCN while a large number of those registered do not bother to renew their licenses. “Most of the patent medicine vendors are engaged in activities far beyond their scope and also stock products outside their approved drug list including, ethical medicines and substances abuse. “After visiting 546 premises during the exercise, a total of 378 premises were sealed while, 24 compliance directives were issued for various offences of, poor sanitary conditions, poor documentation and non display of premises and pharmacist annual licences”. The director disclosed. The director on behalf of the council advised the public to source all drug needs from registered and currently licensed pharmacies and over the counter medicine from registered PPMV shops as drug sold from unregistered outlets can not be guaranteed to be genuine.You