In a bid to solve the unemployment issue in the agri-processing sector in Nigeria, ReelFruit, Temploy, and Made Culture have partnered to launch the ReelSkills for Agribusiness initiative. The initiative is designed to train 1,000 youths in technical and soft skills demanded by Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) within the agri-processing sector in Nigeria. Funded by the Netherlands Government, under the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment (CFYE) programme, the initiative is a training and job-matching programme designed to equip Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) holders and Ordinary National Diploma (OND) between the ages of 18 and with skills in food safety and processing, digital sales and marketing. Commenting on the initiative, founder and Chief Executive Officer, ReelFruit, Affiong Williams, said, “Having realised that the agri-processing sector offers enormous opportunities, we are thrilled to have partnered with Temploy and Made Culture on this initiative that will enable us not only to build potentials but also offers us the opportunity to equip young Nigerians who have the interest to grow this sector. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We are committed to building the agri-processing sector and creating opportunities for young people. We believe that we can build and support more entrepreneurs within this sector through this initiative and we are happy to have kicked off this initiative that will transform the processing and manufacturing ecosystem.” Also speaking, Chief Executive Officer, Temploy Nigeria, Juyin Benson, said, “Temploy is delighted to be collaborating with ReelFruit and Made Culture build the capacity of young Nigerians. We are devoted to recruiting, training and equipping 1,000 youths within Lagos and Ogun states over the next three years with digital and technical skills that will prepare them for a career in the agri-processing sector.” Founder and Principal Director of Made Culture, Malaika Toyo, also said “I believe passionately in using small-to-medium enterprises as skills development hubs for youths. In our quest to tackle Nigeria’s unemployment crisis, we hope to articulate the needs of the labour market to inform how we can provide lifelong learning skills that will improve the lives of young Nigerians.” The first batch of trainees selected based on their availability, qualification and desire to begin a career in the sector have officially been trained, while application for the next cohort is ongoing. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs ReelSkills for agribusiness programme set to improve economic opportunities for Nigerian youths Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa ReelSkills for agribusiness programme set to improve economic opportunities for Nigerian youths