Africa’s Global Bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, has assured shareholders and investors of its unwavering commitment to sustaining its current growth trajectory even as its efforts at business diversification across Africa and beyond continue to yield increasing returns. The Group Chairman, Tony Elumelu, who made this declaration at UBA’s 60th Annual General Meeting, which was held at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja on Thursday, noted that the bank’s strategic investment decisions over the past few years have indeed translated to huge returns for its investors, despite the challenging business environment witnessed in the last two years. “I am proud of how as a Group, we have been able to further consolidate on the new capabilities we have built, novel customer solutions we have deployed, efficiency gains recorded and the growth prospects we have leveraged from a recovering world,” Elumelu stated, adding “These were the building blocks for the very strong financial performance and the growth delivered by your Group in 2021, further confirming the wisdom of the investments we made and the strategy we have pursued, to ensure the diversification and sustainability of our business model.” Whilst expressing his delight to shareholders and customers who have stood with UBA for almost eight decades, Elumelu remained confident of the bank’s capacity to sustain this momentum especially as economic activities recover from the impact of the Covid -19 pandemic. “Our goal is to continue to build strong brand loyalty with our customers and create additional value for our shareholders, whose underlying support has positioned UBA for continued growth,” the Chairman noted. UBA’s Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Kennedy Uzoka, who went into detail about the improved performance of the bank’s subsidiaries in the financial year under consideration, said, “We are happy that the global community recognises the role our Group is playing in the transformation of the African economic landscape through innovative and customer-focused banking services.” He pointed out that the bank’s business in the United Kingdom had specifically witnessed remarkable expansion, adding “As from July 2021, UBA UK started making a profit, and even to date, they are still doing well, and the same can be said for many of our African subsidiaries. The truth is that we are driven by the opportunities and potential in each of the geographies that we invested in, and we are happy with what we have achieved so far. Shareholders who spoke at the meeting including Sir Sunny Nwosu, Alhaji Farouk Umar, Mr Nonah Awoh, Mr Patrick Ajuda, Mrs Bisi Bakare and Chief Timothy Adesiyan, were unanimous in their commendation of the board and management of UBA, for the impressive financials which have translated to higher dividends for shareholders. “Despite the economic situation, UBA has been able to grow profitability and increase its customer base. If you compare the dividend with the share price of UBA, you will see that our dividend yield is very high. No bank in Nigeria has been able to achieve this, and I, therefore, commend the UBA board,” Umar noted in his remarks. At the end of the 2021 financial year, UBA’s Profit Before Tax was impressive with a 20.3 per cent growth to N153.1 billion, compared to N127.3 billion at the end of the 2020 financial year; while Profit After Tax rose grew by 8.7 per cent to N118.7 billion in 2021, compared to N109.2 billion recorded the previous year. As a result, the Bank proposed a final dividend of 80 kobos for every ordinary share of 50 kobos for the financial year ended December 31, 2021, bringing the total dividend for the year to N1.00 as the Bank had earlier paid an interim dividend of 20kobo. United Bank for Africa Plc is Africa’s global bank, offering banking services to more than twenty-seven million customers, across over 1,000 business offices and customer touchpoints in 20 African countries. With a presence in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France and its more recent operating license in the United Arab Emirates, UBA is connecting people and businesses across Africa through retail; commercial and corporate banking; innovative cross-border payments and remittances; trade finance and ancillary banking services. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. At UBA’s 60th AGM, Elumelu upholds its commitment to exceeding growth trajectory, creating value for shareholders Court Awards Nnam  Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. At UBA’s 60th AGM, Elumelu upholds its commitment to exceeding growth trajectory, creating value for shareholders