This is the tragic moment a mother kissed her daughter goodbye moments before she is thought to have become the first Briton to die after eating a cannabis sweet, Daily Mail of UK reported. Damilola Grace Olakanmi, a 23-year-old law student who lived in Ilford, East London, fell ill immediately after eating just one sweet laced with the drug. On Thursday, a photo showing the mother, Wunmi, tenderly kissing her daughter, who can be seen in a hospital bed with tubes taped to her face, was released by the family. The University of Hertfordshire student bought the ‘gummies’ using a messaging app on her phone and had them delivered to her home the same day. A 21-year-old friend visiting from America also became gravely ill after the pair each had one sweet. An ambulance was called to the property at 11.30 pm on March 29. Miss Olakanmi was taken by air ambulance to Queen’s Hospital in Romford in critical condition. Her mother, aged 51, kept a vigil by her bedside until she lost her fight for life on Saturday. Doctors were able to save her friend, who was later discharged. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…