Rivers State Governor and Peoples Democratic Party presidential aspirant, Nyesom Wike on Thursday said the growing insecurity in Nigeria was being perpetrated by Satan, through his agent, the All progressives Congress (APC) who is assigned to destroy Nigeria. He stated while wooing delegates of PDP in Taraba during his presidential consultation in Jalingo. Wike lamented the incidences of bomb blasts in parts of the country and at railway tracks, described such incidences including the operations of Boko Haram and bandits that have killed most Nigerians as a legacy of the APC federal government. According to him, the establishment of State police will be one enduring approach to addressing the festering insecurity that would bring the country’s lost glory. “The federal government, you cannot stop this insecurity if you don’t have state police. You must have state police, having a state police does not mean you will not have a federal police. All over the federal system, even councils have their own police so that you employ people who know the environment. “You cannot take a stranger to go to Mabila, it will take him years to understand that place. You can’t take a stranger to Donga or Chanchanji. So, you need people who knows the environment so they will be able to take care of the place.  “If federal offences are committed, the federal police should handle them. If they are state offences, the state police should handle. “The beauty of establishing State police is to ensure that people who are indigenous to an area are engaged in policing their environment”. Wike defended The presidential aspirant told the delegates that he was in Taraba to seek for their votes to be given the PDP’s presidential ticket to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 election. He noted that Nigeria needs a leader who is forthright, that can speak the truth and competently be the Commander-in-Chief who goes to the field where Nigerians can relate with their daily experiences. “One problem that our (PDP) government, (under me if elected) must solve is to bring down the level of insecurity in this country, otherwise there is no way the economy can grow. “When bandits hear my name, they will run because I will take the war to them. I will be the Commander- in-Chief in action. “I’ll be commanding in projects, in security, in agriculture and the economy together with the armed forces. I’ll be commanding every aspects of life that will make Nigerians happy. This is because I have the capacity to solve the problems of Nigeria.” He assured. Governor Darius Ishaku while responding, commended governor Wike for the desire to ending the growing insecurity in Nigeria. Ishaku while lamenting the state of insecurity in the country, harped the need for creation of state police to permanently end the situation. “He (Wike) speaks the truth, he fears nobody, and he is a workaholic. You have seen how he has turned Rivers State to a working site. We welcome him. We know what he has said, if God permits he will do it. “Nigeria is yearning for leadership, he has said it, hunger doesn’t know east, south or west. Kidnapping doesn’t know south, east or west. Security is security. If there is no security, there is no economy. If there is no economy, the country is not existing.” Ishaku commended. Earlier, the former governor of Gombe State and DG of governor Wike’s presidential campaign, Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, described Governor Wike as a faithful party man with the requisite experience to lead Nigeria. “He is a true party man. Wike joined the party in 1998 and he is still in the party. He has never left even when the going was tough. When great people ran away, Wike stayed. He did not only stay because he did not have anywhere to go, he contributed to building the party, making the party stable and ensuring that the party continue as a growing concern.” Dankwambo described.