Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu recently recognised and celebrated the enduring impact of women in Lagos through the Eko Women 100 initiative. Spotlighting their contributions to the narrative of A Greater Lagos, the initiative is in its third year running, and honours the leading women who are blazing the trail in their fields, contributing to the growth of the state and inspiring the next generation. For this year, some of the women honoured include the First Lady, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; Ibukun Awosika, media mogul, Mo Abudu; elder stateswoman, Mrs Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele; Fidelity Bank MD, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe; Managing Director GTCo, Miriam Olusanya; CEO North-West Petroleum, Dame Winifred Akpani; Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University, Prof. Olatunji-Bello; MD Suntrust Bank, Halima Buba; EcoBank Chairman, Bola Adesola; distinguished stateswomen, Alhaja Lateefat Okunnu and Alhaja Sikirat Jakande; CEO, Eleganza Group, Sade Okoya; veteran artist, Nike Okundaye-Davies, among others.  The event builds on the significant Eko4Women annual celebration, which has honoured over 300 women. In addition, each recipient received a personal letter of recognition from the governor, showing appreciation for their commitment to excellence. Like the occasions before, the initiative empowered several medium and small female-owned businesses across the state. These women were drawn from all parts of the state, across various fields and strata of society. Expressing gratitude for the gesture and commending the governor’s initiative, many of the recipients acknowledged the honour from the state government. “I understand that recognitions such as this are worthy of celebration because this shows that the government is aware of the little contributions we all make to keep this nation alive”, said Bolanle Austen-Peters, Founder, Terra-Kulture, and one of the honorees. Essentially, the initiative points at the need to recognise the strategic contribution of women to Lagos, and the society, in general. As the financial hub of the country, many thriving businesses and global companies are led by women who serve as role models worth emulating by everyone – regardless of their genders. It stresses the importance of women’s leadership and meaningful participation in engaging with civil society more comprehensively and enabling an improved understanding of gender dynamics; addressing the impact of sexual violence; promoting the development and use of measures and standards for monitoring the implementation of women-focused mandates; training and capacity building on gender equality and women. The fight against gender-based violence in Nigeria is not a resounding success – yet. Over 30 percent of girls and women aged between 15 and 49 are reported to have experienced sexual abuse, which actually worsened during restrictions. Across all six geo-political zones, there was a general increase in GBV, with NGOs and state institutions reporting sharp increases in cases of intimate partner violence and domestic violence. In July 2021, the Lagos State government reiterated its efforts to curb gender-based violence (GBV) through sensitisation and training of community leaders, social workers and other stakeholders. Marriage registrars at the 57 local councils and local council development areas (LCDA), including student union leaders in all the tertiary institutions in the states were trained on how to respond to cases of GBV. The Head, Domestic Violence Unit, Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Lagos State, Olorunfemi Oluwatoyin, representing the commissioner of the ministry, noted that prompt responses are given to the daily reports the ministry receives on GBV and the shelter for survivors is at the verge of completion. In recent years, the government has enacted laws and established institutions which prohibit violence against women and girls, including the Child Rights Law, Protection against Domestic Violence Law, the Office of the Public Defender Law and the Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team. The constitutional guarantee of non-discrimination also ensures that government actions, laws and policies do not in any way discriminate against women through the perpetuation of SGBV. But the realities appear vastly different from what we currently have, as success in addressing these issues can only be guaranteed when security measures are put in place to protect women. Nothing else could have made it starker than recently-reported crimes of kidnapping, rape and murder, especially with the death of 22-year-old fashion designer, Bamise Ayanwola. In November 2021, The Lagos State government disclosed that 10,007 cases of GBV were reported in the state since the commencement of governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration. The breakdown of the cases showed that there were 4,150 domestic violence cases, 177 rape cases, 255 attempt to commit rape/sexual assault, 246 sexual assault by penetration/threat cases and 877 others (separation, not taking responsibilities of child(ren), neglect, custody of the child, Non-GBV, etc.).Others include 436 child abuse/physical assault cases, 271 defilement cases, 13 defilement by minor to minor, 454 child labour, abduction neglect/others and 148 sexual harassment/molestation cases. It serves a reminder that more work has to be done, and more collaborations encouraged, in order to address the perversity. Many experts have argued that the high rate of violence against women in many African countries can be traced to cultural values and religious practices directly and indirectly. As we round of the International Women’s Month celebration, stakeholders need to realise that there is a lot left to be done in addressing GBV in Lagos, and in Nigeria as a whole. The path to building a free and fair country demands that we pull down the biases that hinder women’s progress and make it more difficult to create a level playing field in whatever decision or choice they make. GBV recognises no social or economic boundaries and affects women and girls of all socio-economic backgrounds. The policies in Lagos will go a long way to address violence against women and girls, but it requires the involvement of all well-intentioned citizens, including a community-based, multi-pronged approach, and sustained engagement with multiple stakeholders.  Adedipe, an entrepreneur, lives in Lagos.