FOUNDER, Afe Babalola University, AdoEkiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola, has advised the Federal Government to suspend the 2023 elections and allow a six-month interim government after President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure that would evolve a new constitution to address insecurity, economic, political and other excruciating ills bedeviling the nation. Babalola told a news conference in Ado-Ekiti on Monday that the interim government should be in office to chart a new course for Nigeria. He stressed that the 2023 elections should be suspended until Nigeria has “a new-look peoples’ Constitution which should provide for part-time legislators and non-executive president.” Babalola said that members of the interim government should be drawn from all living former presidents and vice presidents; some selected ministers and governors and delegates of prominent professional associations. The professional associations could be the Nigeria Medical Association, Nigeria Bar Association, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). The elder statesman noted that such delegates should be elected on a zeroparty basis. He said it was regrettable that the current 1999 Constitution foisted on Nigerians by the military was no longer in tune with realities of the day.  “The same constitution has made politics become not only very attractive, but the only lucrative business in Nigeria today. “What this means is that any election that holds under the present scenario will end up producing transactional and recycled leaders, with no ability to turn things around,’’ he said. The university proprietor advised that the new Constitution which should be coordinated by the interim government, should spell out rules and regulations on improved qualifications of those contesting elections. He added that the new constitution should provide for part-time legislators and not full-time legislators, considering the attendant waste of resources. “The new constitution should also provide that there shall be no salary, but sitting allowances only for lawmakers. “It should provide a true federal system of government, instead of the expensive presidential system of government. I suggest parliamentary system of government, with a unicameral legislature. “The new constitution should also provide a body at the local, state and federal levels to screen all aspirants on the sources of their wealth and means of livelihood, criminal record which includes pending suits,’’ he said. The legal luminary added that any person that would become the president of Nigeria should not be older than 60 years of age and must have a varsity degree. Babalola recommended a new constitution that would peg the age limit of those seeking to be president, governors and members of the National Assembly at 60. Periscoping the country’s high poverty and currency devaluation in the international market, Babalola declared that the country now faces imminent bankruptcy due to alleged gross mismanagement by corrupt leaders, leading to free fall in the naira’s value. The renowned lawyer, who spoke in ABUAD, on Monday, while addressing newsmen, lamented that Nigerians had shed enough tears and blood due to increasing cases of killings, kidnapping and banditry, without responses from those at the helms of affairs. He said the 2023 general election remains the best opportunity to chart a new course for the nation. He added, “I decided to talk because this country is now different from the one I used to know. That is why we need a new constitution after President Muhammadu Buhari that will spell out rules and regulations on the qualifications of those who are qualified to contest elections. “I believe that whoever is seeking elections as a President, governors and National Assembly members should not be more than 60 years, with good and sound health, sound education, experience, good human relations, friendliness and firmness, vision and mission, among others. “The new constitution shall provide for part-time legislators and not full time and the attendant wasting of resources, who will be collecting allowances and not salaries. The new constitution will propose federal system of government rather than presidential system and a parliamentary system with a unicameral legislature. “We need a constitution that will throw up young, brilliant, dedicated people to save this country. We can’t get all these under the present constitution.” He added further, “the external debt, which was $10.7bn in 2015 is now over $38 billion. The government is borrowing more, spending more, but earning less revenues. The worse thing is that the debt servicing level is also rising.” . YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspend 2023 elections, install interim government after Buhari’s tenure ― Afe Babalola