The Hunters Council of Nigeria, Ofu Chapter in Kogi State have killed two suspected Kidnappers along Okele/Ochadamu road in the early hours of Wednesday. The suspected criminal their Waterloo a few days after attempting to kidnap innocent commuters plying the route after the Easter celebration on the 18th April 2022 before the men of the Nigeria Navy engaged them in a gun battle. The men of the hunters ambushed the criminal elements after discovering their hideouts in Ochadamu at about 2 am. The suspects who engaged the hunters in a gun duel for over forty minutes claimed the lives of their two members while three escaped with varying degrees of injuries. Briefing the newsmen at Ochadamu, the Special Adviser to Ofu Local Government on Security Matters, Hon. Mohammed Lawal Musa said the operation was carried out by the men of the Hunters council of Nigeria to keep the Local Government safe. The breakthrough followed cases bordering on kidnapping, armed robbery, and unlawful possession of firearms, he explained.  Hon. Lawal assured the people of the local government that he will continue to work round the clock with the security operatives to ensure a safe society for all while sounding a note of warning to all criminals and intending culprits to desist from crime or have him contend within the local government. He commended the Ofu chapter of the hunters’ council for their gallant performance, directed all heads of security to beef up security architecture, and rout out all criminals from the Local Government. The Special Adviser handed over their bodies and the weapons found within their possession to the DPO of the Ofu Division. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Two suspected kidnappers  Two suspected kidnappers Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Two suspected kidnappers  Two suspected kidnappers