Happy times are here for Nigerians as new set of winners are set to emerge on the Cream Platform, one of Africa’s talent discovery platforms, that will see lucky Nigerians play in the BID of The Week (BOW) with the lowest unique amount. In a statement made available to newsmen on Thursday, the platform which has been rewarding Nigerians from different parts of the country and taking them on a journey that gives their lives meaning and on a journey across the world. The platform which also gives visibility to upcoming artists and expands the horizon of the already requires interested persons to key into the platform by registering www. Creamplatform.com or dialing *463# to all networks to participate. Led by one of Africa’s finest, D’banj otherwise known as Oladapo Oyebanjo and Don Messini (Chief Damian Ifeanyi Okoroafor), the platform has built a strong reputation for producing some of the brightest talents in the country for some time now. Speaking about the Cream Platform, D’banj said the plan is to use the platform to transform the lives of Nigerians by playing on the lowest unique number after registering on the platform and becoming the lucky winner on the BID of The Week (BOW). YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. 