Cromaria Care Foundation has advised visioneers of Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) to be truthful and accountable in their dispensation of duties as a bridge organisation to reach out to masses. Mrs Benedicta Orji, the Executive Director of the NGO, while addressing participants at a capacity building programme for NGOs in Lagos, said visioneer of NGOs must be accountable to the people they are serving as well as sponsors of their projects, while noting that a foundation should be set up based on passion and not for material gain. Mrs Benedicta Orji, said the establishment of an NGO should primarily be driven by passion to help the needy and less privileged, while noting that NGO that is established for financial gains might end up being frustrated out of the organization or be susceptible to being used for money laundering. She emphasised that NGO are not business for profit nor money making instrument and definitely not a greedy organisation. Mrs Orji howeve explained that NGOs are agent of change, source of data to touch lives, platform to build society, instrument for nations to add to societal development and it’s designed for delivering love. She explained that to succeed as an NGO, visioneers must understand that the traits needed in carrying out their humanity service are love, empathy, care, sacrifice, tenacity, among others; therefore she charged them to be more passionate and creative with their vision so that humanity would be happy that they came.  Speaking on NGO Accounting and Finance, Mr Chidiabere Ogaga explained that according to the local laws and regulations of most countries, all registered NGOs are required to maintain a system for recording and submitting all types of financial transactions made by them for the purpose of implementing projects and running their organisations. He advised that since finance is a crucial part of organizational management, it is always a better idea to maintain a ‘Financial Policy’ following procedures to keep the accounting system effective, transparent and easily manageable. He added that keeping a good account would help the organisation to be transparent and accountable, as well as help the organization in budgeting, auditing and reporting. The Capacity Building event, organized by Cromaria Care Foundation, was in commemoration of World NGOs and was attended by visioneers, administrators and volunteers of NGOs in Lagos. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE