The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya, has said Operation Hadin Kai in the northeast is still receiving surrendered terrorists. He made this known on Tuesday in Maiduguri when visited the Gun Pack Artillery at Maimalari Cantonment where a cache of recovered arms and ammunition. “We are still receiving surrendered terrorists and we are having them every now and then. What we have recovered here speaks for itself, both in terms of equipment, ammunition and medical equipment and we are not relenting. “Our call to the terrorists is to know that the time is against them, and the earlier they toe the line of peace the better, otherwise we would get them,” he added. “The result of what we are doing speaks for themselves as far as the clearance operations are concerned, in both Timbuktu Triangle and Sambisa Forest,” he said while adding that the operations are still ongoing at the Tumbus in the north and Mandara Mountains in the south.” Reiterating the commitment of the Nigerian Army to end the insurgency in the Northeast, the chief of army staff said “the president has provided us with all we needed to end this war.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.