A Magistrate Court sitting in Akure, Ondo State capital, on Monday, ordered the remand of a 19-year-old apprentice, Babatunde Bobola, at the Correctional Centres for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl The accused was dragged to the court by the men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun Corps on one count charge of rape. The State Prosecutor, O.F Akeredolu told the court that the defendant committed the offence on March 24, 2021, at Odige Street, Akure, stating that the defendant had carnal knowledge of the minor The charge read in part: “That you, Babatunde Bobola, on or about March 24, 2022, at about 16:00 hours, at Odige Street, Akure, a place within the criminal jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did have carnal knowledge of, an eight-year-old girl.” The prosecutor said the offences contravene Sections 357 and 358 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap. 37, Vol. 1, Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria, 2006. The Prosecutor told the court that based on the nature of the offence against the defendant, prayed for an order to remand him at the Correctional Centre, which was supported by an affidavit, while the plea of the defendant was not taken for want of jurisdiction. The Magistrate, N.K. Aladejana remanded the defendant in the Olokuta Correctional Centre pending the insurance of legal advice from the Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) and adjourned the case till June 13, 2022. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Court remands apprentice over alleged rape of minor