In virtually everything we do we interact with other human beings and if this be the case we need to be adept in human relations. There are many components of human relations and one of the major components is sensitivity. Sensitivity is a skill we must acquire if we will have effective and harmonious relations with people. Sensitivity deals with understanding, diplomacy, tact, thoughtfulness, consideration. It has to deal with appreciating and properly responding to other people’s feelings. “Being sensitive is being kind, caring, able to pick up on the feelings of others, and aware of their needs and behaving in a way that helps them feel good. Being sensitive is often a good thing. It helps respond to the environment and people. It helps us being alert of the danger. Sensitivity is also the basis of sympathy and empathy. Being sensitive helps build and maintain personal and professional relationships. It helps in decision-making, personally and professionally. For example, introducing a new rule with sensitivity means being considerate of how it will affect others and how they will react to it.”  Rohini Radhakrishnan, Sensitivity is a soft skill. Soft skills are personal habits and traits that influence how we work on our own and with others. They are intangible skills unlike hard skills which are the competences and know-how of getting a job done. In life we cannot perform at our optimum if all we are good at is in competences. “You cannot continuously improve interdependent systems and processes until you progressively perfect interdependent, interpersonal relationships.”  Stephen Covey Sensitivity has to do with empathy. Empathy is the ability to recognize, understand and respond appropriately to the feelings of others. It is seeing things from other peoples view point by imagining you being in their shoes. “Empathy is trying to understand what another person is feeling.  It is seeing the world through another’s eyes. It helps people to get along better and to feel better. Having empathy is a key ingredient to becoming the best person you can be.” Michael Stutman We must be like the Lord. No one displays empathy like the Lord. “For we do not have a High Priest Who is unable to understand and sympathize and have a shared feeling with our weaknesses and infirmities and liability to the assaults of temptation, but One Who has been tempted in every respect as we are, yet without sinning.” Hebrews 4:15 Amplified. “As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.” Psalms 103:12-14. Next time we will look at how to be sensitive to people. TO BE CONTINUED For enquiries and comments please send email to charismokola @yahoo.com