A farmer, Unaha Enesi, has been found dead on his farm in Ago Panu, Upenmen-Owo, along Owo/Ikare road, in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, with machete cuts found on his body. The farmer who was killed while working on his farm was beheaded by his assailants and was left in a pool of blood while his head was taken away by his killers. The development caused apprehension in the area farmers from the village are now scared of going to their farms. Enesi who hailed from Kogi State was believed to have been kidnapped when he failed to return from the farm before a search party discovered his headless body on his farm. A source explained “it was the search party that discovered his body after he failed to return home from the farm. “We only found his corpse on the farm, he has been killed and his head taken away by the killers”  Speaking on one of his kinsmen, Ibrahim Adeiza, who said the killing of Enesi has caused panic among farmers in the community. He said the farmers were apprehensive of going to the farm for fear of being killed. Also speaking, the chairman of Owo Local Government, Chief Samuel Adegbegi, who visited the community, said the criminals would soon be brought to book. He assured the residents that adequate security would be provided for the people and their property, urging them to report any strange movement in the area to the security operatives in the area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… Farmer found dead, beheaded in Ondo We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo Farmer found dead, beheaded in Ondo