National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu has described himself as the man Nigeria needs to take charge of its wheel of progress. Tinubu spoke at a one-day parley between current speakers and deputy speakers of the APC led states, with the theme ‘The Legislature, Changing times and Nigeria’s Democratic Journey’, hosted by Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa in Lagos. Tinubu noted that Nigeria has the focus and boldness but doesn’t know how to run the race and take charge of the wheel of progress. He, therefore, stated that it needs a courageous leader to effect drastic changes that will bring revenue and build the nation.  The APC leader stressed that the development of the country is about thinking and doing, and ‘I am ready to do that again’. “Nigeria needs me even as I need Nigeria. Nigeria needs drastic courageous changes that will bring revenue and I am that courageous one it needs. “I was raised to be courageous and this has been working for me. “I want to bring the same to bear as president of Nigeria. “Accelerated development of our nation is about thinking and doing, and I am ready to do that again because I am a thinker and doer,” Tinubu said. He explained that he wants to become president legitimately through the ballot but I reserve the right to brag, adding that he started his teething age of politics in the Senate and he did well as the youngest. The Former Governor also described himself as well educated, sound, brilliant, vibrant, and one of the best alumni of the Chicago State University. “I want to become president legitimately through the ballot but I reserve the right to brag. “I started my teething age of politics in the Senate; I was the youngest and I did well. “I am well educated, sound, brilliant, vibrant, and one of the best alumni of the Chicago State University. “I was a student-tutor and one of the most sought-after graduates after school as I had five job offers even before graduation. “In the face of tyranny and all odds, I have survived, stood and fought for democracy, survived the exile, lived without family, while financing other pro-democracy groups. “I have contributed to sustaining Nigeria’s democracy more than any other person. I am a very passionate being. “I have contributed immensely more than any other person contesting today. I equally have it better when it comes to legislative experience, I am married to a senator, and have allowed her to practice her religion well,” Tinubu said. While begging the lawmakers to spread the news of his ambition, The APC Chieftain begged the lawmakers to do him a favour by supporting his presidential ambition so that he can do the country a favour too. The Presidential Aspirant asked the lawmakers not to leave the meeting without a commitment to vote for me him as It is a very challenging time; hence, the need to decide it right. Meanwhile, he said he did not take an appointment so that he can assert his position. “I am pushing and requesting your support to be elected president of Nigeria in 2023. I am begging you to do me a favour so I can do Nigeria a favour. “No one should leave here without a commitment to vote for me as a delegate. It is a very challenging time and we need to decide it right. “I did not take any appointment so that I can assert my position,” Tinubu said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…man Nigeria needs  man Nigeria needs Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…man Nigeria needs  man Nigeria needs