An aspirant for the Lagos State House of Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Onamade Oluwatosin, has said that he is poised to leverage the experiences of the best hands to provide the desired representation in every sense of the word to Ikorodu Constituency 2 if elected into office, come 2023. Onamade made this known during the official declaration event, held in the Ijede Ikorodu area of the state. He further promised to collaborate with colleague lawmakers to ensure the removal of some irrelevant clauses that had adversely been affecting necessary growth in the development of the constituency. This was just as he assured that he would as a democrat ensure that the promises made to the people of his constituency were fulfilled to the letter. “As a democrat and firm believer in the rule of law, it is important to make every spoken and promised word on paper more formal than just mere words of the mouth. “Therefore, I promise to leverage on the experiences of the best hands in Ikorodu Constituency 2 to provide the desired representation in every sense of the word to my constituents if I’m given the opportunity to serve,” he said. The State House hopeful, who is a former chairmanship aspirant of Ijede Local Council Development Area (LCDA), while further unveiling his agenda, premised on qualitative, passionate, visible and result-oriented representation for the constituency, stressed that it had become necessary to pursue such due to the prevailing economic situation affecting communities.  According to him, his agenda of developing ideas and courageous strategies that will have a direct positive impact on the lives of constituents would be pursued and achieved, saying he would work hand in hand with other colleagues in the State Assembly to review some laws that had remained a clog in the wheels of progress in order to engender progress, unity and fair play. Onamade, while appealing to the Ikorodu APC leaders, members and stakeholders to support his aspiration to become APC flagbearer in the 2023 poll, vowed to be visible, a good listener, discerning and active legislator who would contribute to the growth of the constituency and join other arms of government to bring unquantifiable benefits to his people. On his part, the Chairman, Ndigbo in APC, Ikorodu Peter Aran, JP, threw his support for Onamade in his aspiration to represent his constituency, adding: “It is the turn of Ijede to gun for the position.” Aran assured the aspirant of the readiness of all Igbo residents in the constituency to work as a team for the actualization of his dream. APC Apex Leader in Ijede, Adewale Ajala, also charged the Ikorodu people to get registered and obtain their Permanent Voters Card (PVC), adding that everyone must participate and vote for their chosen candidate in the 2023 polls. According to him: “It is not about prayer points or miracle to vote in your choice candidate in 2023 but you should participate actively.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 2023: House of Assembly aspirant assures Ikorodu residents of quality representation Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 2023: House of Assembly aspirant assures Ikorodu residents of quality representation