Vice President Kamala Harris has tested positive for COVID-19, the White House announced, on Tuesday, after returning from a weeklong trip to California, CNN reports. “Today, Vice President Harris tested positive for COVID-19 on rapid and PCR tests. She has exhibited no symptoms, will isolate and continue to work from the vice president’s residence,” said Kirsten Allen, the vice president’s press secretary, in a statement. Allen added, “She has not been a close contact to the President or First Lady due to their respective recent travel schedules. She will follow CDC guidelines and the advice of her physicians. The Vice President will return to the White House when she tests negative.” Harris had been scheduled to receive her intelligence briefing at 10:15 am ET Tuesday at the White House alongside President Joe Biden, according to daily guidance sent to reporters Monday evening. Harris arrived at the White House Tuesday morning, a White House official told CNN, and went straight to take a test. After testing positive on both PCR and rapid tests, she returned home to her residence at the Naval Observatory, where she will be isolating. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Separately, an official said Harris last saw Biden at the Easter Egg Roll on April 18. She left Washington for California that afternoon and didn’t return until Monday night. While in California, she held events on portfolio issues last week. Harris held no public events over the weekend before returning to the nation’s capital. CNN has asked when the vice president last tested negative. Harris completed her two-dose regimen of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine in January 2021. She received her first booster dose in late October and a second booster vaccine on April 1. The vice president’s positive COVID-19 test comes as the US has largely lifted most of its COVID-19 mitigation measures after the Omicron variant spike over the winter. In accordance with federal public health guidelines, officials and visitors have not been required to wear masks or socially distance at large White House events. COVID-19cases in Washington have declined since their peak in early January, when the country was facing a wave of Omicron variant cases, but have been rising recently. Though the White House has continued to hold crowded indoor events where masks are optional and officials have forgone masks in public, the administration has said they are going beyond federal guidelines to detect Covid-19 in the building. There’s mandatory testing for those who come into contact with Biden and social distancing during meetings, at least when it’s possible. The White House is not considering returning to pandemic-era restrictions, according to White House press secretary Jen Psaki. “We are continuing to implement the return-to-work policy and feel we have the measures necessary to do that,” she said. COVID-19 has also been making the rounds among White House staff in recent months. In late March, White House press secretary Jen Psaki cancelled her plans to travel with the President to Belgium and Poland after testing positive for Covid-19 for the second time. Her replacement on the Europe trip, White House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, tested positive shortly after returning from the trip. Harris’ husband, second gentleman Doug Emhoff, tested positive for COVID-19 earlier in March. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Vice President Kamala Harris tests positive for COVID-19