A 65-year-Old fake soldier, Ajisafe Adetokunbo who defrauded job seekers in the state to the tune of N1,165,000 on the pretence that he would use his position in the army to secure jobs for them has been remanded in Ilesa prison. The fake soldier who presented his victims with forged appointment letters of the Federal Road Safety Commission to justify the money falsely received from them was dragged before a magistrate court sitting in Osogbo where he was slammed with six counts of fraud, impersonation and theft. Police prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, told the court that “Adetokunbo committed the acts between October and December 2021 in Osogbo. He added that the defendant obtained the sum of N1, 135,000 from a woman identified as Omoniyi Folasade with a promise that he would secure jobs for her siblings in the FRSC, but never met the commitment.” According to the prosecutor, the accused also obtained a sum of N30, 000 from one Adesola Michael under the pretence that he would secure a job for his wife in the Federal Road Safety Corps. The suspect was apprehended after the applicants reported the matter at the Dugbe Police Station, Osogbo. The prosecutor said the defendant committed offences contrary to and punishable under sections 109, 419, 390(9) and 467 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. “The charge brought against him read thus: “Ajisafe Adetokunbo, between the months of October and December 2021 in Osogbo, Osun State, did with intent to defraud, falsely present yourself as a Colonel in the Nigerian Army to Omoniyi Folasade, Adesola Michael and others (that) you defrauded of their money, a representation you knew to be false. “You did unlawfully obtain the sum of N1, 135, 000 from one Omoniyi Folasade under the pretence of securing jobs for her siblings in the Federal Road Safety Commission, a pretence you know to be false.“You did, at the same time and place, steal the sum of N1, 135, 000 property of one Omoniyi Folasade. You did unlawfully obtain the sum of N30, 000 from one Adesola Michael under the pretence of securing a job for his wife in the Federal Road Safety Commission, a pretence you knew to be false. “You (Adetokunbo) did steal the sum of N30,000 property of one Adesola Michael and you also forged the Federal Road Safety Commission offer of appointment letters, dated October 24 and December 10, 2021, which you presented as genuine.” However, the defendant pleaded not guilty to all the allegations. His counsel, Najite Okobe, applied for his bail in liberal terms and assured the court that he would be available to stand trial. The prosecutor opposed the oral application on the ground that the defendant would abuse bail privilege if granted. Magistrate Adekanmi Adeyeba granted the accused person’s bail in the sum of a N1million to two sureties with conditions that, the sureties should be a civil servant not below grade level 14 and must be a close relative who must be a landowner within the court’s jurisdiction. However, when the accused could not meet the bail conditions, has been orderly to be remanded at the Ilesa Correctional facility. Further hearing on the matter has been fixed till April 13 for mention. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team