The Kaduna State Government has received luggage, valuables and other belongings of some passengers who were on the Abuja-Kaduna train, AK9, which was attacked by terrorists on 28th March. In a statement issued by the commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan on Friday said the items were handed over to the Kaduna State Government by the Military authorities. According to the statement, the military had gathered the items from within and around the train during search operations after the attack. ‘Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed his thanks to the Military authorities and commended them for their careful handling and documentation of the items comprising over 100 pieces of luggage, valuables, gadgets and personal effects. “Nine persons had already collected their items after presenting proof at the point of recovery by the military. “The remaining belongings, received with a detailed inventory, will be carefully stored. A system for the receipt of claims will be communicated to the public subsequently. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Kaduna receives over  Kaduna receives over Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Kaduna receives over  Kaduna receives over How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team