Experts in the field of medicine have raised awareness on the importance of adult vaccination for the prevention of infectious diseases. The virtual Media Roundtable was organised by Pfizer for medical experts to deliberate on the need for vaccination in adults and the burden and management of vaccine-preventable diseases in older people. According to the Consultant Physician and Professor of Medicine from the Lagos State University College of Medicine, LASUCOM, Ikeja, Lagos, Professor Olufunke Olayinka Adeyeye and the Chief Consultant and Head of Geriatrics Unit at the National Hospital, Abuja, Dr Ogugua Osi-Ogbu, adult individuals have decreased immunological response when exposed to infections. They, however, emphasized the importance of adult vaccination as well as the challenges in adult vaccination while exploring adult pneumococcal disease. In her submission at the virtual session, Adeyeye said, “A systematic review of infections in individuals older than 65 years found that coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, were all associated with significantly higher risk of acquiring pneumococcal infections. Vaccine preventable diseases are infectious diseases caused by viruses or bacteria that can be prevented with vaccines. Vaccines are not just for kids; adults need vaccines too. Even if fully vaccinated as a child, adults may be at risk for other diseases due to age, job, lifestyle, travel, or a health condition.” Speaking in the same vein, Dr Osi-Ogbu commented, “Pneumococcal disease is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in older adults. Many high-income countries recommend pneumococcal vaccination in older adults but, even where policies are in place, coverage is often low. Very few Low and/or mid-income countries currently provide pneumococcal vaccination to older adults as a part of a routine programme. Vaccines don’t just protect you. They protect those around you, too. Vaccines protect individuals against specific diseases, but they also help those who have not had the vaccine by creating “herd immunity”. This protects people vulnerable to the disease, such as babies too young to be vaccinated, people undergoing chemotherapy, the elderly, and people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons.” Representative of Pfizer Inc. at the virtual meeting, a Medical Director in Sub-Saharan Africa, Dr Kodjo Soroh, stated that continued access to immunizations is essential to preserving the progress made so far against vaccine-preventable conditions and strengthening our ability to address emerging health threats. He added, “Pfizer has a long history in vaccine research and development. Through the development of innovative delivery systems and technologies, we’ve created scalable solutions that address prevention of deadly bacterial infections. The key to maintaining and building on these advances is constant vigilance and continued access to immunizations is essential to preserving the progress we’ve made against vaccine-preventable conditions and strengthening our ability to address emerging health threats. At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety, and value in the discovery, development, and manufacture of health care products, including innovative medicines and vaccines. Every day, Pfizer colleagues work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments, and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with health care providers, governments, and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For more than 150 years, we have worked to make a difference for all who rely on us.”  How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team