Bauchi State Police Command has confirmed the death of 2 people by hoodlums who stormed the venue of a wedding send-forth at Gudum Hausawa, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis. Confirming the development in a telephone conversation with our Correspondent, the Command PPRO, SP Mohammed Ahmed Wakili said that, “Yes, there was an incident where some thugs entered a house and started beating the people and the youths, they started using the Dane gun to shoot the people and macheted and wounded some youths”. Ahmed Wakili added that, “Two youths were shot and killed by the hoodlums, those killed were Christopher Habila, 17 years old and Halon Nandir, 18 years old all of Gudum Hausawa” . The PPRO also said that, “Presently 7 suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident while the Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda has directed that full discreet investigations should be conducted to get the root cause of the incident”. On readiness of the Command to protect lives and properties of innocent citizens, he said that, “The Commissioner of Police has directed the Area Commander to expand investigation in the area and fish out anyone involved in the crime”. The PPRO further said that all DPOs in the metropolis have been directed to focus attention to the area following series of happenings in the area in order to protect lives and properties of law abiding citizens.  He also said that all the arrested suspects are already in detention at the Police Command Headquarters pending the completion of investigation. The Command reiterated its readiness to continue to protect lives and properties of the people of the state advising them however not to take the laws into their hands but should always report criminal acts to the Police and other security agencies operating in the state. Reports had it that on Friday last week, hoodlums in their numbers stormed the residence of a retired Police Officer, Ezra Yari in Gudum Hausawa who organized a send forth ceremony for his daughter who was expected to get married on Saturday. The hoodlums were said to have stormed the house at about 11 pm while the program was going on and started hitting, beating people in attendance and even shot two young men dead in the process. A resident of the area told our correspondent that the attack came as a surprise considering the fact that Mr Ezra Yari has been living in the area peaceful with everyone. He stressed that the area is gradually becoming notorious for activities of hoodlums who take cover there are plan their nefarious criminal activities appealing to security operatives in the state to come to their rescue. Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Bauchi State, Rev Dr Abraham Damina Dimeus who visited the area, appealed to the people particularly the Christian community to remain calm and not seek revenge. The CAN Chairman assured that the leadership will take up the matter with the relevant agencies and authorities to ensure that justice was done to the families involved.