The Future Creative Leaders Academy (FCLA), the student platform of the Pitcher Festival of Creativity, has announced an undergraduate student of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, Oyinkansola Valerie Epidi, as the nation’s winner of the 2022 Future Creative Leaders Academy to attend the Roger Hatchuel Student Academy taking place during the Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity in France. Epidi was one of the best three students nationwide out of the 40 other undergraduate students across the country from 14 top tertiary institutions that offer Advertising as a course of study. The three best creative works were then forwarded to the international jury to choose the best to represent the country. Epidis creative work was returned as the best of the three. The contest had the participants showcasing a two-minute video of their creative works to justify their selection for the Roger Hatchuel Student Academy to be attended by only 30 select students from around the world. The Academy is expected to be a six-day global learning experience at Cannes International Festival of Creativity designed for students approaching graduation. The academy would also inspire the participants to become the next set of creative leaders equipped with the tools, knowledge and connectivity to explore creative avenues and launch themselves into the world of advertising and creative communication industry. Epidi, whose contribution was adjudged the most creative and best edited work, was elated that her robust exposure and teaching in the University marketed her to the judges.  She said she was driven to study Communication and Media Studies due to her love for broadcasting, though the programme drew her attention to advertising such that it became her strong point. She noted, during an interview, that “advertising is a medium to express one’s creativity. Creativity is a mindset that allows me to think and express myself freely and to reach the world through something that I am passionate about”. The winner, who is flying the nation’s flag at the Paris event, said she used her mobile phone to record and edit the winning creative video. She also said she has a website where she operates as a blogger although she has put it on hold in order to concentrate on her final examinations and her project. The trip to France has been slated to hold in June, 2022, and to be fully sponsored by Chini Africa, organisers of the Pitcher Festival of Creativity and Cannes Lions official festival representative in Nigeria. The Vice Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Professor Timothy Adebayo, leading other Management Staff, received the news with gladness and congratulated the winner for making the University proud. He pledged to encourage the student by paying half of her school fees in his personal capacity. He further reiterated the commitment of the University to continue to support students who prove their mettle in their respective areas of study. The VC also paid tributes to the organisers of the FCLA for their commitment to the promotion of youth excellence. Meanwhile, Nnamdi Ndu, CEO CHINI Africa said: “This is our 16th year of organizing the Future Creative Leaders Academy programme and selecting participants for Cannes Lions Roger Hatchuel Students Academy, yet it remains one the most exciting part of our calendar. We’re grateful for the privilege to keep impacting the future of our profession and looking back at all the previous winners, we’re so thankful for the opportunity to be part of so many success stories. Congratulations to Oyinkansola, the Department of Communication and Media Studies and Ajayi Crowther University as a whole.”