About 20 cows have lost their lives in a mysterious way in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital. It was gathered that the mysterious death of the cattle could be traced to alleged poisoning. Following the mysterious death of the cows, the Kogi State Government has warned the people of the State to stay away from the consumption of beef in the next one week. The State Director of Veterinary Services, Dr Salau Mohammed Tarawa, who gave the warning on Thursday said upon receiving the report, officials of the ministry swung into action and retrieved some of the dead cows that were discovered in the market. Tarawa said others cows were said to have been taken towards Osara, Ajaokuta, Obajana, Kotonkarfe and Kakanda for possible sales to unsuspecting members of the public. He explained that the Ministry of Agriculture is collaborating with security agencies to invite the herders involved for questioning and appropriate action will be taken against them. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Agriculture, Mallam Sani Abdulganiyu, appealed to the general public to cooperate with the ministry to address the situation without compromising their health. Speaking on the development, Head Agro Rangers Unit Kogi State Command, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Bayode Emmanuel, said the cows were discovered by some officials of the Unit in Lokoja. “The cows emerged from the back of the State Secretariat complex where they had gone to graze. All of a sudden, they started behaving funny, slumped and died instantly within minutes. “Upon interrogation, the Fulani herder said he was coming out with them after grazing before the incident happened,” he added. However, the State Public Relation Officer of the Kogi State Command of the (NSCDC), Alex Agiri, said the State Commandant, Suleiman Ibrahim Mafara, has directed a thorough investigation into the matter to ascertain where the dead cows had grazed and also prevent possible sale and consumption of the infected beef in the state.