A Nigerian Professor of Anatomy and consultant reproductive endocrinologist, Oladapo Ashiru, has been elected as the Secretary-General of the International Federation of Fertility Societies(IFFS). IFFS is a non-state global organisation on fertility and with an official relationship with the World Health Organisation
Prof Ashiru is elected on Wednesday, April 6 alongside other executive officers at the General Assembly of the World Fertility Congress in Athens Greece and he is to serve till 2025. Prof Ashiru, who is also the President of the Academy of Medicine Specialties of Nigeria(AMSN) and the Africa Reproductive Care Society is now the first black person to be elected for the role of IFFS chief scribe in the 54-years history of the organisation. Ashiru made the announcement in a statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen on Friday. He listed other elected officers to include Dr Edgar Mocanu (UK) as President, Prof Marcus Holton (Argentina) as President-elect, Dr Eileen Malano (Philippines) as Assistant Sec-Gen, Dr Rishma Pai (India) as Treasurer, Dr Lana Retchitsky (USA) as Assistant Treasurer, Prof Linda Guidice (USA), Immediate Past President, and Dr Zi Jiang Chen (China) as a Special Envoy for International Relations. According to him, the IFFS World Congress provides a platform for participants to convene, learn and discuss current advances and research in reproductive health, access to fertility care, and reproductive rights across the globe, and engage the patient perspective. He said the theme of this year’s world congress and which is its 24th edition was “Exploring New Horizons in Fertility Care.” He added that the mission of the organisation is to stimulate research, disseminate educational information, and promote the superior clinical care of patients in all aspects of reproductive and fertility medicine across the globe
Prof Ashiru, who said the Nigeria Association of Fertility and Reproductive Health had been an active member of IFFS since 1986 is now the Assistant Secretary-General of the organisation since 2019. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ashiru emerges first black  Ashiru emerges first black Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ashiru emerges first black  Ashiru emerges first black