As part of the activities lined up for the 14th Combined Convocation ceremony of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, a former military governor of Oyo State, Major General Oladayo Popoola (Retd), and a legal luminary, Chief Mobolaji Olukayode Ayorinde (SAN) are among eminent Nigerians that will be conferred with Honorary Doctorate Degrees by the university. Also to be honoured is a former Nigerian High Commissioner to Zambia and Malawi, Ambassador Ibironke Adefope, as disclosed in separate letters of invitation sent to the three honoraries by the institution. The university in a letter dated April 8, 2022, written to Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN), and signed by the Acting Vice-Chancellor, Professor Mojeed Liasu, stated that the University’s Senate arrived at the decision, having taken into consideration Ayorinde’s pedigree and contribution to humanity in general. ’Council at its meeting on Friday, April 8, 2022, considered the recommendation from the Senate on your nomination for the award of Honorary Degree, Doctor of Civil Law (D.CL Honoris causa) at the Convocation ceremonies scheduled for Saturday, April 23, 2022. “Council arrived at the decision to award you the honorary degree, having taken into consideration your pedigree and contribution to humanity in general. It is the belief of the University that awarding you this degree will serve as further impetus for you to continue to be of use to humanity,” the letter stated. Mobolaji Ayorinde (SAN) was a former Pro-Chancellor, and Chairman of Governing Council, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, between 2007 and 2011. He was also a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Prerogative of Mercy (PACPM), during  President Goodluck Jonathan led administration.  He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators, Chairman, Aviation & Transport Committee, Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators, Chairman of the Oyo State Committee on the Decongestion of Prisons and in June 2012, he was appointed, Chairman of the Governing Board of the Legal Aid Council of Nigeria by the President. He was conferred with the National Honour of “Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic” of Nigeria, OFR in 2014.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. LAUTECH to honour ex Oyo military administrator, Popoola, legal luminary, Ayorinde If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False LAUTECH to honour ex Oyo military administrator, Popoola, legal luminary, Ayorinde