Probe of the finances of Buhari House, the All Progressives Congress (APC) national secretariat, appears imminent as new national Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu dropped the hint on Friday. The former Nasarawa State Governor gave indication of his intention to unearth the financial status of the ruling party shortly after receiving Certificate of Return from the Jigawa State Governor and Chairman of APC National Convention Election Committee, Abubakar Badaru. Senator Adamu said a decision would be taken after the transition committee must have submitted its report. He said: “As for you the Director of Administration, you have no hiding place. “We will count on your loyalty to the party. It is in God’s pleasure that we are here at the helm of affairs of this party. “We’ve come with a very very open mind but you have to reciprocate in same spirit. ‘We will definitely by the will of God Almighty. The Secretariat, we need to look at you but I am not saying anything today until the transition committee submits its report. “It is my hope that by the time the report is submitted, you have what they call clean bill of ledge(sic); that’s my prayer. Right? My sister knows what I’m talking about.” The APC national chairman also advised other national officers of the party to show full loyalty to his leadership at all times. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “As for those of you who just received your certificates just like me and members of the working committee, I’ve told you during our first meeting of the committee, I am a team player. “I am a team player as much as is possible. I want to carry everybody along with me. “But to work with me, not because I’m the best and everything. You have to be loyal. You’re loyal to me; it’s not loyalty to me but loyalty to the party. You have to recognize the authority of the party. In all that we do, the interest of the party is paramount. “You are lucky you around because we had agreed by Wednesday we are having our next meeting because we wanted the committee to give us a report. We want to know where the party is exactly, so that we don’t get taken by the exuberance of winning election and just plunge into the into the into the pond pool or not know how deep is the temperature of the water. ” Earlier in his remarks, Governor Badaru commended aspirants who surrendered their individual ambitions by submitting themselves to the consensus arrangement adopted by the party to fill most of the national and zonal offices.