The Oyo State government on Monday commended the old students of St Anne’s School, Ibadan, under the auspices of Seminary St Anne’s School Old Girls Association (SSASOGA) for dedicating some buildings to the school. The Commissioner for Education, Rahman Abiodun-Raheem, made this known during the dedication of the three buildings in the school. The building, Block A, (an office block) was inaugurated by the commissioner, Abiodun-Raheem; supported by the permanent secretary of Oyo State Ministry of Education, Mrs Aminat Atere; and the sponsor SSASOGA 64/68 set. Block B (another office block) was inaugurated by the chairman of the Oyo State Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Pastor Akinade Alamu, and supported by the sponsor SSASOGA Lagos branch. Finally, the renovated block in the junior school was inaugurated by the permanent secretary of TESCOM, Mrs Grace Olabisi Oderinde. In his speech, the commissioner stated that “old students like SSASOGA are playing significant roles in complementing the government’s efforts in achieving educational objectives in the state. “There is no doubt that the facilities will make teaching and learning in the school easier and improve the academic and infrastructure development of the school.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Chairman of TESCOM, Oyo State, Pastor Alamu, in his remarks, told members of the association that the government is always in support of their good work in developing the school. Permanent secretary of TESCOM, Oyo State, Mrs Oderinde, in her remarks, commended SSASOGA members for their hardwork, commitment as well as the sacrifice they have invested in the school. She assured them that the government would support them in completing more of their projects and also in giving the school the right teachers. While responding, the president of SSASOGA, Mrs Similolaoluwa Onabanjo, noted that the buildings are for the students and their teachers. She urged the teachers to utilise the buildings to teach and develop the students. The SSASOGA president also hinted about the proposed construction of two buildings in the school by the association. The buildings are: the ANNA Hinderer Building, and a hostel building for boarding students.