A female corps member serving in Osun State and attached to a hotel located around G.R.A in Osogbo, the state capital, narrowly escaped being raped by the manager of the hotel (name withheld) on a Friday. It was revealed that despite several bitings received from the corps member, he still made effort to have sex with her. Investigations, however, revealed that the manager who made a second attempt thought that the corps member could no longer breathe again, and left her for a while before the lady stood up suddenly and fled the room. According to her account, the manager, a 29-year-old, on Friday, March 25, 2022, around 8:40 pm. approached her requesting a bottle of beer before asking her to follow him to his room. “After collecting the bottle of beer, he was discussing life after service year, asking about plans.  I followed him upstairs to his room where he continued the discussion. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “A few minutes later he started touching me and I resisted pulling his hands off my body, but suddenly, he pulled me closer and turned my face on the bed and put his hands in my trouser and inserted it in my private part. “He then pulled my trouser from behind, turned my face up, and wanted to penetrate into my private part, I was resisting him. He was too heavy for me, I even bit him. “Yet, he carried on. He poured his semen on my body and pant. When he discovered that I can’t breathe very well, he stood and I ran out of the room. “The following day, two of my female corps members discovered I wasn’t not playing or relating with them very well. “They inquired what happened. I couldn’t tell them at first, but when I couldn’t hold the tears anymore, I told them what happened to me and they encouraged me to report the matter to the police and I did. “I took the police from Dugbe divisional headquarters to the hotel, but on sighting the police team, the manager ran away through the back exit.” she narrated. When contacted for comment, the State Police Command spokesperson, SP Yemisi Opalola confirmed the incident. She disclosed that, the hotel is the corps member’s place of primary assignment and that the matter is presently under investigation by the police command while the suspect has been arrested.