THE League of Imams and Alfas in Ondo State has urged the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, to rescind his decision to return missionary schools to their original owners. The body described such a move as antithetical to religious peace and good governance, saying it would mark a return to a “dark period” when educational institutions were used by religious bigots for forceful conversion and intimidation of the masses. At a press conference in Akure, the state capital, the chairman of the league, Sheikh Ahmad Aladesawe, said rather than return schools to missionaries, the government should think of how to improve the infrastructure in schools across the state. Aladesawe, who is the Chief Imam of Owo, was represented by secretary of the association and Chief Imam of Supare Akoko, Alhaji Abdulrasheed Akerele. He maintained that the move by the government was an avenue to return the state to the ages of impunity against Islam. According to him, the move will work against the Federal Government’s policy on education as well as the educational policies of prominent international bodies with stakes in education development of the nations and Ondo State in particular. He said: “The Ondo State government, for the sake of posterity, unborn generation, development of the state and even for the sake of the traumatised and impoverished masses, should not return schools to the faith-based organisations (FBOs) under any banner or guise. “This is because of its daring consequences as more children will be thrown out of schools because their parents would definitely not be able to afford the fees that will imposed by such organisations. “As of now, more than 80 percent of the students on enrollment are on the register of the public schools. Their parents are at the mercy of the government to provide qualitative and affordable education for their children. What will be the plight of such parents and their children considering the fact that more than 70 percent of Nigerians are living below the poverty line?” Sheikh Aladesawe said a return of the schools would further impoverish the masses who would be forced to withdraw their children and wards from schools “when the missions and shylock school proprietors take over and start charging prohibitive fees.” He called on the government to instead build more schools, improve on the existing educational infrastructure, improve on the educational personnel, especially the teaching staff, and provide adequate teaching and instructional materials. He urged the governor to establish an education trust fund and set up a committee of eminent personalities to manage the funds. According to Aladesawe, this is imperative considering dwindling government resources. “If the governor will go ahead to return schools to the so-called original owners after acquisition, full compensation and huge investment using our hard-earned resources (tax) then we will have no option but to seek redress using every legal and constitutional means available to us as a cardinal member of Ondo State community with vested interest in the educational development of our dear sunshine state,” the cleric stated. He called on all well-meaning indigenes of the state and all organisations passionate about the future of children in the state to join the league in the campaign against the “dangerous tide.” The move to return the missionary schools in the state is coming 46 years. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Don’t return schools  Don’t return schools Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Don’t return schools  Don’t return schools