As allegations of imposition continue to trail the recent emergence of All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, and other members of the National Working Committee at the just concluded APC National Convention, the Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has dismissed insinuations that President Muhammadu Buhari singlehandedly imposed Senator Adamu on the party. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu who represents Abia North disclosed this on Tuesday in chat with newsmen at the National Assembly in Abuja. He said the president did not take the decision alone from his bedroom but consulted widely with stakeholders of the party. According to him, “it is not an imposition. It was a democratic agreement because there was consultation at every level of the party and if you have consulted widely it is democracy. “The president in his wisdom was able to solve the problem. Do you know how much money was saved from the pockets of aspirants by that consensus? “The consensus was not just taken in the president’s bedroom. The president consulted the governors, he consulted the leadership of the National Assembly which I was one of them and he consulted other stakeholders of the party, the youth and all the rest of them and the aspirants themselves. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “So I don’t see anything that can be better than that. I know people like you journalists were already celebrating that we were going to fight at the eagle square and we did not fight and it came out successfully. “We needed somebody that has a figure of the president in the party. We are very happy with that decision,” he said. On the torrent of declarations by prominent Nigerians for the presidency in 2023, Senator Kalu described most of them as jokers who have no pedigree to occupy the highest seat in the land. “You people take politics as a joke whereby everybody says he is an aspirant. What is their experience, their public experience, their capacity to build? I employ 13,000 workers in Nigeria and I have the capacity to manage people. “Politics is the ability to make everybody happy that is what it’s all about. President is about openness, is about the ability to manage journalists, ability to manage professors, legislators like Ahmed Lawan, you have to manage them, these are what politics is all about. “Politics is not just coming to say you want to answer the name president. They are anxious to become president, are they ready to work? A president should be one that is ready to work for Nigeria,” he stressed.