LaFiya Telehealth and TytoCare say they are partnering to accelerate the depth of clinical care given through telemedicine in Nigeria by ensuring that physicians can examine and diagnose patients virtually beyond video consultations in the country. The partnership is bringing an integration of their services to enable remote examinations with livestreaming, information from TytoCare Home kits, and consequently a more precise and detailed prognosis and early diagnosis. Founder, LaFiya Telehealth, Mr John Enoh, said: “As COVID-19 wages war and more patients and providers adopt telehealth and telemedicine, it’s critical that we accelerate the depth of care that can be provided at home to keep patients and medical professionals safe in Nigeria and around the world. “We are excited to partner with TytoCare to treat patients remotely with in-depth, physical examinations during video visits.” LaFiya Telehealth is currently integrated into 10 hospitals (for referrals), over 10 medical lab centres, and 1,500 pharmacy stores across Nigeria with an option for prescribed medication for home delivery or pickup at pharmacy stores closer to the patients. Mr Enoh added that the latest exclusive integrations and newly designed workflows will allow healthcare providers to clinically come closer than ever before to patients during telehealth encounters, allowing them to see, interact, examine and deliver care in ways that growingly replicate in-person care.  CEO & Co-Founder, Tyto Care, Dedi Gilad, in a statement, said: “By pairing the TytoHome handheld examination device with LaFiya Telehealth’s platform, healthcare solutions will be brought closer to consumers to provide the best home examination and diagnosis solutions. “This will further revolutionise primary healthcare in Nigeria, as we contribute to improving health outcomes and experiences for both patients and clinicians.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Patients and consumers will have access to digital prescriptions, drug delivery services, medical examinations and access to over 600 board-certified medical doctors and specialists from Nigeria and abroad. Tyto Care will enable patients to participate in examination and diagnosis using Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered TytoHome handheld examination device. The device will provide a better understanding of a patient’s conditions, need for treatment and the urgency to see a clinician, as well as help clinicians better triage on patients. It will ensure unnecessary in-person visits can also be avoided. TytoCare’s FDA-cleared handheld examination kit will enable users to perform comprehensive physical examinations of the heart, skin, ears, throat, abdomen, and lungs, as well as measure heart rate and body temperature, which are key for treating chronic conditions.