The Defense Attache at the Ukrainian Embassy in Nigeria, Colonel Andrii Vasyliev has said that as of April 1st 2022, Russian forces have killed 148 children, injured 230 children and destroyed 797 educational institutions in the ongoing war in Ukraine. He said in total, about 497,000 of Ukrainian citizens have arrived in the country since the beginning of the open-armed aggression, as the Russian Navy has blocked more than 90 civilian ships in the Black Sea region, intended for the transport of grain and other foodstuffs. He said that so far, Ukraine has lost about 17,000 personnel, 614 tanks, 1735 APV, 311 artillery systems, 96 MLRS, 54 Anti-aircraft warfare systems, 135 aircraft, 131 Helicopters, 1201 vehicles, 7 boats/cutters, 75 fuel tanks, 83 UAV operational-tactical level, 22 special equipment, and 4 ТРК / mobile SRBM system. Addressing journalists in Abuja, Vasyliev said from United Nations updated figures on refugees in Ukraine, 3.8 million left the country, another 6.5 became internally displaced. “As of April 1, 2022, since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, 148 children have died and more than 230 children have been injured. It is impossible to establish the actual number of dead and wounded children due to the fact that the occupying forces are actively fighting in Ukrainian cities. “The bombing and shelling damaged 797 educational institutions, 76 of them were completely destroyed. “The UN has updated the figures on refugees in Ukraine. 3.8 million left the country, another 6.5 became internally displaced. And 13 million people remain in the war zones, they cannot leave from there. Russia is forcibly mobilizing men for war with Ukraine in the temporarily occupied Crimea. “Forced mobilization is prohibited by international humanitarian law. In addition, among those forcibly sent to war with Ukraine are Crimean Tatars, who are forced to go to war by threatening to use force against their relatives. “About 30% of world exports of wheat, 20% of corn and 75% of sunflower oil fall on the Black Sea region. At least three civilian ships that were carrying goods from Black Sea ports around the world, including one chartered by an agricultural company, were bombed by Russia. “The Russian Navy is blocking access to Ukrainian ports, effectively interrupting grain exports. According to reports, they prevent about 94 ships from entering the Mediterranean Sea carrying food for the world market. Also, due to the threat from Russia, many shippers are hesitant to send their ships to the Black Sea. He said the Russian media is continuing the war of accusations, as the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation has launched an investigation into the circumstances of inhumane behavior of Ukrainian nationalists towards captured Russian servicemen. Colonel Vasyliev said the Russian media create and distribute staged videos with the inhuman treatment of alleged Ukrainian military to Russian prisoners. “In response to these accusations, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine stressed that the service members of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other legitimate military formations strictly adhere to the norms of International Humanitarian Law. He also urged us to take into account the realities of information and psychological warfare and to trust only official sources. “Russian media continue to elaborate the narrative that the West has betrayed Ukraine and is curtailing arms supplies to the Armed Forces. On the contrary, the United Kingdom is one of the strongest supporters of Ukraine, which supplies Kyiv with various types of modern lethal weapons, including Starstreak MANPADS”, he said. “Due to the brutal aggression of the Russian federation against Ukraine, the fourth week of education under martial law conditions training begins. “For distance learning, students and teachers can use the national electronic platform “All-Ukrainian school online”, as well as study in private schools that have provided free access to education on their own platforms. “The Ministry of Education and Science, together with the regional military administrations, is initiating the creation of a network of educational hubs, the main goal of which is the high-quality and rapid organization of the educational process and life of internally displaced persons”, he added. How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team