The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba on Monday approved the posting of Assistant Inspector-General of Police, AIG John Ogbonaya Amadi, as Ag. DIG Department of Research and Planning, Force Headquarters, Abuja, and DIG representing the South-East Geo-political zone. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the Acting Force Public Relations Officer, FPRO, Olumuyiwa Adejobi According to the statement, the IGP also approved the posting of CP Moronkeji Olusegun Adesina, to the Ekiti State Police Command as the Commissioner of Police in charge of the Command. It explained that the new Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Research and Planning, Ag. DIG John Ogbonaya Amadi, who hails from Ebonyi State, is a versatile police officer, with a Bachelor’s degree in Education (Biology) and a Master’s Degree in Education both from the University of Lagos (UNILAG). According to it, he attended several professional courses both in Nigeria, and abroad some of these include the Advance Detective Course, Police Staff College, Jos, and the National Security Course, Police Academy, Cairo, Egypt. “Amadi, who is a member of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), has held many Command positions including as Commissioner of Police at the Railway Police Command, Western Ports Authority, Lagos, and Airport Command, Lagos; Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Maritime, Lagos “Until his recent posting, he was a Directing Staff at the NIPSS, Kuru, Jos. “CP Moronkeji Olusegun Adesina, who takes over the duties and responsibilities of the office of Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State Police Command, holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Philosophy from the Ogun State University/now Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State, and a Bachelor of Laws Degree from the University of Calabar, Cross River State. ” He is a member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Virginia, USA. Prior to his posting as CP Ekiti, he was the CP General Investigations, Force Criminal Investigations Department, Abuja. It explained that the Inspector-General of Police had charged the senior officers to put their best foot forward in ensuring top-notch delivery of policing services to members of the public. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE