THE President of the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Mr Taiwo Adeniyi, has charged the nation’s employers to look beyond the era of New Normal and prepare for the ‘Next Normal’, as COVID 19 pandemic begins to wind down. Making the charge at the official launch of a Survey Report, tagged, ‘Next Normal: The Changing Workplace in Africa Research’, in Lagos, recently, the NECA boss argued that the advent of the pandemic had necessitated institutions and governments, globally, to make frantic efforts not only to contain it but also balance the imperative for a healthy nation and economic sustainability. He described the new study, which had its focus on “Changing Workplace in Nigeria”, was commissioned by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), through its Bureau for Employers’ Activities (ACT/EMP) in collaboration with Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), as part of global research for Africa to understudy how the pandemic and technology had continued to shape the next normal. “The Report is another proactive and innovative approach to our campaign for a business-friendly environment in Nigeria, using the support of evidence-based advocacy,  “One of the major casualties of the pandemic, beyond the loss of human lives, was the loss of jobs, negative impact on employers and businesses. Most organizations were compelled to embrace remote work options, and flexible work hours and the changes affecting both employers and employees in diverse ways,” he added. Adeniyi described the research on changing the workplace, as presenting a collection of views on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses and work in Nigeria, while also describing the varying ways in which the pandemic had affected work and the workplace; changing production strategies; the role of Labour Law and Regulatory Framework, among others. The NECA boss argued that the study had accelerated the adoption of remote work practices such as ‘work-from-anywhere’. “While adoption of work-from-anywhere in organizations is likely to increase, as the pandemic winds down, it is likely that hybrid-remote arrangements will become the norm at workplaces globally. Employers have to prepare for the next normal”, he added. Adeniyi, however, assured of the association’s readiness to circulate freely, copies of the report to all its constituencies: Member-companies, Ministries, Departments and Agencies as well as its social partners and the media. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Absolutely, When we came with the Buhari government in 2015 I became the minister. We were committed to a roadmap to establish a National Carrier, to concession the airports, to set up a leasing company, to establish cargo facilities and we have been doing that.” On why the Buhari government wanted a national carrier, the minister responded: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in Africa. 30.4 million square kilometres miles, 1.5 billion people, very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. 200 million people and rising middle class, propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for National Carrier.” Sirika who insisted that the coming national carrier will be private sector driven added; “Private. Yes. 5 per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed. “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. that is why Tim Clark of Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria in multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG expresses commitment towards private driven aviation sector