Members of Kwara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Saturday announced their defection to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The event, which saw the people being led out of the APC by all the 193 ward chairmen, 16 local government chairmen and members of the state working committee members of their erstwhile party, however, saw the minister conspicuously absent. Meanwhile, the national publicity secretary of SDP and a NEC member of the party, Ambassador Rufus Aiyenugba and Lekan Alabi, respectively, graced the defection ceremony in Ilorin. It is recalled that the ruling APC in Kwara state had since inauguration, been enmeshed with intra-party friction between Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and Alhaji Lai Mohammed factions. Speaking with journalists at the event, the Kwara South Senatorial Chairman of the APC faction, Rasak Alabi, said that directed supporters and members of the group to go to their various wards and obtain the party’s membership card. “We pray that in our eyes, our vision will ripe and break into a new dawn.” Mr. Alabi attributed their defection to the exhibition of attitude inimical to the development and growth of the party by Governor Abdulrazaq since he assumed office, adding that the national leadership of APC failed to address their concerns. “Despite our endurance in the face of the inhuman treatment meted on us in the party, it will be correct to suggest that the state governor working in tandem with the former national caretaker committee chair, Mai Mala Buni, has decided to edge us out of the party against our wish. And to make matters worse, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who once headed the party’s National Reconciliation Committee that denied us fair hearing but rather turned himself the governor’s ‘solicitor and advocate’ is now the the party’s National Chairman. How then can we be hopeful of getting justice in this circumstance? “We seize this opportunity to thank our men and women and our numerous supporters for their courage and faith in standing with us. In the past few months, they have become agitated about our continued stay in the party. “The delay in our response has been a product of a rather long and far reaching consultations and dialogue with majority of our leaders, elders and supporters across the state.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE While welcoming the defectors into SDP party, Ambassador Aiyenugba said that rather than envy APC, “I sympathize with the party for losing the mammoth crowd to SDP. “It is a pleasure to receive this mammoth crowd of the loyal group that have decided to move a pan Nigerian and people-oriented flagship political party. “I assure everyone of us coming into the party, that SDP’s trademark is fairness, rule of law and social justice for all. A platform that warmly receives everyone and gladly provides a lovely play ground for all who want to express their political aspiration without let or hindrance. We respect people, we love you and we honour you that is why we are here to join in telling the whole world and Kwara state in particular that SDP is the best alternative”.