Some unknown gunmen numbering about six in their number on Saturday morning attacked the Ogaminana Police Station in Adavi local government council area of Kogi State killing three police officers on duty. The attack was said to have been carried out around 2 am on Saturday. According to the source, the gunmen were said to have attacked the police station from different directions as this development has caused panic around the town. Confirming the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP William Aya in a statement said, “on Saturday the Command received a report of the unfortunate incident at Adavi Police Division where some hoodlums attacked the station from the opposite direction shooting sporadically but were repelled by the men on duty and operatives of the Quick Response Unit who were on special operations at the Local Government. “However, the Command lost three of its officers during the gun duel, while the hoodlums fled with gunshot wounds as they could not get access to the station. “The Commissioner of Police, Kogi Command, CP Edward Egbuka, immediately deployed a team of tactical operatives to the area and restored normalcy while trailing the hoodlums with a view to apprehend and bring them to book.  “The Commissioner of Police use this medium to call on the people of Adavi and the adjoining communities to be on the lookout and report anybody seen with bullet wounds to the Police or any other Security Forces nearest to them. “He directs the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigation to commence investigation into the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gunmen attack police  Gunmen attack police Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gunmen attack police Gunmen attack police. .