To lessen the burden of needs on orphans and the less privileged, Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has donated food items and toiletries to Orphanages and Homes in the five divisions of the State. The items including bags of rice, toiletries and cartons of beverages were formally presented by the party to the Association of Orphanages and Homes Operators in Nigeria, (ASOHON), Lagos State Chapter, an umbrella body of orphanages and homes in the State at an event held at the party Secretariat in Acme, Ikeja, Lagos on Thursday. State Chairman, Lagos APC, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi said the largesse is the party’s way of partnering with orphans and the less privileged in the State. He added that it’s also aimed at complementing the efforts of the Lagos State Government to bringing succour to the needy.  He said, “It’s our little way of partnering with the less privileged in the society having recognised the need for us to assist those who are in need of our support. “As progressives, what the Lagos State government is doing by way of free education, payment of WAEC and NECO fees, Ilera Eko and a host of other things, we felt the need to complement the state government by reaching out to the less-privileged, importantly, in these seasons of Ramadan and Lenten. “It is just to make them happy. We recognised the sacrifice the founders of the foundations have made. So this is to encourage them to put in more efforts. This is a clever way of sending message to members of the public that all of us have to be our brothers’ keeper. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Therefore, my message to Lagosians during these festive seasons is for them to maintain peace because without it we can achieve nothing. You can see the state of security in the country today and all of us are worried because the criminals live within us in the society. “This is why if you see something, you must say something. We need to collaborate with security agencies to ensure that criminals are flushed out of our society so that we can live peacefully with one another. “It is when we are in an atmosphere of peace that those that are saddled with the responsibilities of leading us will have peace of mind to think of what to do to better our lives. So, I enjoin all of us to live in harmony and continue to live peacefully in our communities.” Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Lagos State Chairman of the Association of Orphanages and Homes Operators in Nigeria, (ASOHON), Mr Ganiu Dosunmu revealed that there are over 1000 orphans lurking across garages in Lagos State due to lack of care and hunger. He stated, “ASOHON is a group recognised and approved by the State government. Under the Lagos State chapter, we have 74 groups. I am assuring you that justice will be done by way of getting the gift delivered to various homes and foundations. “The chairman has just quoted me rightly that if you train a child, you trained a nation and with such training, you have prevented kidnapping, armed banditry and robbery. “This is exactly what the Lagos APC has done today. An important take home from this is that Lagos APC party has shown a path that needs to be emulated by corporate bodies and other good spirited Nigerians. “On our part, we will ensure that we get all orphans in Lagos State captured in our association. The situation in the country is tensed and everybody is not happy and safe. “If you go round garages in the state around 4am, I can assure you that you will pick nothing less than one thousand orphans lurking around garages across the state. And as we are aware, there are over 1000 garages in Lagos State. “So, on behalf of ASOHON, I have listed another 42 Homes which I am officially presenting to you for your assistance anytime you are willing to assist. And God will continue to assist you. On behalf of orphanages in Lagos State, I thank you very much for extending a helping hand to us.” 