A former senator and former Pro-Chancellor of the University of Calabar, Nkechi Nwaogu, has purchased the expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the Abia Central Senatorial District in the 2023 election under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The senator made this known on Friday, seizing the opportunity to promise her constituency better representation. She said she is in the race to liberate, restore, emancipate and resuscitate Abia Central from the shackles of misrepresentation and legislative redundancy. Prior to the purchase of the forms, she said she is poised and determined to serve her constituency. “My quintessential and unassailable track record is an applause and is vindicating our widely accepted ‘Message of Restoration’,” she said. She stated that if she succeeds in going back to the senate, she will carve out a niche for the youths and make sure they are adequately empowered and employed.  “With the help of the Almighty God, I have done it before and I will still do it again,” the senator said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.