Practitioners under the auspices of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV)  have expressed readiness to partner with the Federal Government on the implementation of Executive Order 11 signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, in Abuja, last week. They said the executive order would not only address the deplorable state of public buildings but also strengthen the development and sustenance of public buildings and infrastructure in the country. This was contained in a statement signed by NIESV’s President, Mr Emma Okas Wike, noting that building maintenance which is an important aspect of building management is often neglected. While commending the president for the new policy,  they said: “We are also ready to partner with the government in the implementation of this well-intentioned policy. “As a dependable partner with the Federal and State Governments for about 53 years of our existence in policy formulation, land administration, infrastructure and facility management for both public and private assets, property management, housing and project development in general, Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers fully endorses this unprecedented approach to maintenance in the history of our country,” the statement read. President of NIESV said the group’s expectation is that the latest legislation would give a facelift to public buildings across the country. With institutionalization of maintenance culture, Wike explained that buildings would retain their economic life, lower depreciation cost and consequently ensure higher productivity and profitability. This, he said, would go to the extent that proper maintenance ensures lower expenditures on replacement, thus allowing more expenditure or funds for incursion into new productive ventures and investments. He explained that estate surveyors and valuers across the length and breadth of Nigeria have been adequately trained to undertake property and facilities managements of all assets in the best global practices, adding that they have been compelled to uphold the profession’s well-articulated and documented Code of Professional Ethics in doing so. “Estate surveyors and valuers should key into this government initiative and offer the best professional services in the interest of the country and our noble profession,” he said. Irked by the dilapidating state of public buildings across the country, President Muhammadu Buhari, last Wednesday at the State House in Abuja signed into law the Executive Order 11, a landmark legislation which focuses essentially on the maintenance of public buildings.