Executives of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo North Senatorial District of Edo State have disassociated themselves from the purported endorsement of the former governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for the senatorial seat. The party executives stated this in a communique endorsed by 24 executives members across the district after their meeting in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, on Monday and made available to newsmen in Benin on Tuesday. The communique has the following as some of the signatories: Francis Ozoya (Secretary Ward 3, Owan East), signed by Mr Francis Ozoya (Youth Leader Ward 3, Owan-East), Onaivi Alabi(Auditor, Ward 1, Akoko-Edo), William Patrick (Asst. Secretary Ward 8, Akoko-Edo) and Chief Lucky Agbu (Chairman Ward 3 Etsako-East), They said that the alleged endorsement was the figment of the imagination of Jarret Tenebe, who is the State Deputy Chairman of the APC and Alhaji Abubakar Akhokia, Etsako West Chairman of the party.  They further stated that what was being described as the endorsement was only a response to the invitation to the 70th birthday anniversary of Oshiomhole by party faithful across the district and nothing more. “The only significant thing that could be likened to an endorsement at the event was a motion to zone the senator seat to Etsako West which was resisted by some of the executives present at the occasion. “The argument was that you can’t move the senate from Etsako East to West, what about the Owan that last had it between 2007 and 2011 and also Akoko-Edo that last had it between 2011 to 2015 while it has been in Etsako since then. “Efforts to challenge the sinister declaration were met with brutality on some party executives, including Mrs Oikelomen Alice (Owan West LGA Woman Leader). “If what happened at Iyamoh is what has been turned into the purported endorsement of Oshiomhole for senate in 2023, then we are surprised. “It would be undemocratic for Oshiomhole to fall for this shenanigans because it is the turn of Owan to get the senate seat if at all it will be taken away from the present occupant, Francis Alimikhena from Etsako East”. The communique concluded that rather than a blanket endorsement of Oshiomhole, all interested persons from the district should subject themselves to open primaries to decide the party’s ticket for senate. According to the communique, those in attendance at the meeting were drawn from Owan West, Owan East, Etsako East, Etsako West, Etsako Central and Akoko-Edo. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 