Eight out of the 22 members of the 1994 squad of the Nigerian Super Eagles have received the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) from the Federal government of Nigeria. The ceremony at the Ministry of Works and Housing brought to a close a 28-year-old promise as Austin Eguavoen, Samson Siasia and others collected their Certificate of Occupancy to their respective property. The Federal Government had in 1994 announced its appreciation to deliver houses to Super Eagles, who won the 1994 African Cup of Nations in Tunisia in their states of preference. The federal government has redeemed the promise through its National Housing Programme (NHP) executed across the country and has begun allocation of houses to the members of the squad. Beneficiaries of the fulfilled promise are the immediate past Technical Adviser of the team, Austin Eguavon, Peter Rufa’i, Victor Ikepba, Sunday Oliseh, Isaac Semitone, Colonel A. Asielue, Stephen Edema and late Uche Okafor. Late Okafor was allocated a house in Owerri, Imo state; Oliseh (Abeokuta, Ogun state), Peter Rufa’i, Austin, Eguavon, Victor Ikepba, Asielue and Edema, they were allocated houses in Asaba, Delta State. Addressing witnesses to the feat of the federal government in Abuja, the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, pointed out that Today’s climax of the promise was raised by the Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr Sunday Dare. Fashola said it was Dare, who called the attention of the government to the fact that the promise made in 1994 to the Super Eagles was not redeemed. He said the allocation of the houses and their respective C of Os to the beneficiaries was to ensure that the promise made 28 years ago was redeemed without any further delay. According to him: “We also arranged for members who are beneficiaries to choose the states, the places where all of this has been done. “Now, we anticipated that it was possible to give you allocation letters, and then, we would like to see your C of Os or you’re choosing your flat. We wanted to ensure that it was not too late for them.” Mr Eguavon who responded on behalf of the beneficiaries thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, the Ministers of Sports, Mr Sunday Dare and his that of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola for the gesture. Eguavon, who also apologised for the failure of the Super Eagles to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, said many governments failed to redeem the promise made to the team in 1994. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…FG redeems 28-year-old promise  FG redeems 28-year-old promise Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…FG redeems 28-year-old promise  FG redeems 28-year-old promise