The Executive Secretary of Benue State Action Committee on AIDS, Dr Tyo Terhile, on Wednesday, in Makurdi said that 70 per cent of complications during pregnancy can be prevented. Speaking at the flag-off of campaign on Universal Access to Maternal and Child health among religious women leaders held at Pauline Makka Center, Makurdi, Dr Terhile said that there were always warning signs before experiencing complications that most times lead to death. He therefore called on religious leaders to encourage their followers to seek medical care. Collaborating with Dr Terhile, the state Commissioner for Women Affairs, Mrs Tabitha Igirgi, admonished religious leaders in the state to encourage their followers, particularly, pregnant women to always seek medical care. Mrs Igirgi who was represented by a director in the ministry, Mrs Doshima Agbe decried the alarming rate of mortality amoug pregnant women and children in the state. She explained that rather than wait for miracles, pregnant women should seek medical attention, adding that Science was an answer to prayer. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE She said: “It is good we have some of our religious leaders here because they have influence on their followers.
We should know that Science is an answer to prayer, God has come in the way of science. Religion and science are part of our lives. “Science has answered some of the prayers we offer because faith without action is nothing. “So let our religious leaders charge the women, particularly, pregnant women to go to hospital, adding that ‘malaria can cause miscarriage. Speaking earlier, the State coordinator of the Nigeria Network of Religious Leaders Living With All Personally Affected By HIV And Aids, Dr Abigaiil Gire said that the whole idea of the campaign was for religious leaders to step out from religious dimension of spirituality and help stop mother and child mortality in the state. “Because women are still dying, particularly in the rural areas since the religious organization like CAN, and JNI have organs at the grassroots it will help to reach all. nooks and crannies of the state in the campaign,” she said. Among those who attended the ceremony were; Christan Association of Nigeria, CAN, Jama’atu Nasril Isl NHIS WOMCAN and FOMWAM. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs 70% of complications during pregnancy can be prevented ― Benue action committee on AIDS