Mother of a notable Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels Nwoko has declared her interest to represent Aniocha South  Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly come 2023. The veteran Nollywood actress and the  National Woman Leader of Ohaneze Ndigbo worldwide,  Chief Rita Daniels Chukwuji on Saturday told delegates of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogwashi Uku, headquarters of the council that if given the opportunity, she would leverage on her contacts and connections to attract investment and development to the neglected locality. The aspirant who is the vice president of Nollywood  and  the only woman in the race so far in the area was speaking at the local government party secretarait  to solicit for votes  from delegates in the next month primaries of the party. Explaining that she was already a  successful person before her daughter, Regina, got married to billionaire husband, Ned Nwoko, the Ochudo of Ogwashi Uku kingdom said that she does not depend on her rich son in-law to fund her election. According to her, transparency would be her watch word even she promised  to use her connections to improve the  welbeing of people in the area. “I promise you transparency which we are lacking in  local government. I am not hungry, and cannot take what belongs to the people. “I will attract development to Aniocha South through my contacts within and outside government. “I championed the Nollywood Village which is about to be completed in Asaba, and it is going to create direct and indirect employment for our youths,” she said. She told the people that she was a pro duct of poverty, stressing that through dint of hard  work and commitment she was able to succeed. She therefore urged youths not to dispair but to harness their talents. Responding on behalf of the delegates, councillors and PDP executive in the locality, the Chairman of the party in the area, Mike Okwufulueze who  promised a level playing field for all aspirants  advised Chief Rita Daniels Chukwuji to consult widely and win the confidence of all stakeholders.