The Department of State Services (DSS) on Tuesday raised the alarm over the alleged ploy by suspected criminal gangs to forge an alliance among themselves with a view to launching attacks on critical infrastructure and other frequented public places during and after the public holidays and festive celebrations. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the Spokesperson of the Service, Dr Peter Afunanya. The statement said that the targeted places include worship and relaxation centres which were being designed by the criminal elements to return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent of IED attacks on soft and hard targets in parts of the country. According to the statement, consequently, the Service warned patrons, owners and managers of the aforementioned public places to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats and assured them that it was committed to the disruption of the dastardly act. It promised that it would continue to partner with other security agencies to ensure that necessary drills were emplaced in order that public peace and order were not jeopardized. The statement reads, “the Department of State Services (DSS) hereby draws public attention to plans by criminal elements to return the country to the pre-2015 era reminiscent of IED attacks on soft and hard targets in parts of the country.  “Though there are already reported cases of such incidents in some areas, the Service has uncovered a ploy by suspected criminal gangs to forge an alliance among themselves with a view to launching further attacks on critical infrastructure and other frequented public places like worship and relaxation centres, especially during and after the holidays and festive celebrations “The objective is to achieve some self-serving interests as well as cause fear among the citizenry. The Service, however, recalls its earlier warning that some groups and individuals were plotting to stoke violence in the country. “Following these, patrons, owners and managers of aforementioned public places are advised to be wary of this development and implement basic security measures to deter the threats. While the Service is committed to the disruption of this trend and pattern of violent attacks, it will continue to partner with other security agencies to ensure that necessary drills are emplaced in order that public peace and order are not jeopardised. “To this end, residents are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses and share, with security and law enforcement agencies, useful information on the activities of criminals.” Meanwhile, the DGSS, Alhaji Yusuf Magaji Bichi, had wished all and sundry a hitch-free Workers’ Day and Sallah celebrations. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE