The member representing Ibadan North Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Olaide Akinremi popularly referred to as Jagaban has held an interactive session with All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in Oyo South Senatorial District and charged party faithful on the need for reconciliation and peace. Hon Akinremi, who was a member of the National Caretaker and Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee of the APC, at the meeting held on Friday at the newly-constructed Prince Akinremi Town Hall, Samonda, Ibadan, explained the need for “the participants to embrace reconciliation and endeavour to reach out to aggrieved party members as it is not uncommon to have differences and disagreements on congresses especially in a great and populous party like the APC.” At the meeting which had in attendance stakeholders at wards and local governments in Oyo South District as well as Oyo State in general, Akinremi said it was an avenue for deliberation on the progress of the APC in Oyo South and Oyo State at large. A statement by Media Assistant to Hon Akinremi, Mr. Michael Adegbuyi, said as the only elected representative of the APC in the entire Oyo South district Akinremi “deemed it necessary to engage relevant party stalwarts in the senatorial district on the way forward for the party, amongst which are pathways to a more robust reconciliation process and coordinated preparations towards the 2023 general elections.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said the meeting won’t be limited to Oyo South, but will be extended to other districts in Oyo State and advised those in positions of authority within the party to view the position they currently occupy as one of service to the teeming members of the APC in their respective domains, and not a position to spite anyone in the party. “The aim of this meeting is to engineer a solid, more-inclusive and indivisible Oyo State APC as the party prepares for the next elections starting with the party primaries that are set to commence soon, and to also ensure relevant stakeholders are well prepared for the task ahead, as the APC looks forward to an all-encompassing positive performance of the party in Oyo South and Oyo State in 2023,” he stated. Hon. Akinremi said this was imperative to ensure the Oyo APC secured all elective seats in Oyo South Senatorial District in 2023, and prevent a situation of having only one representative as the current situation, where himself remains the only representative of the party in the entire Oyo South Senatorial District. He said he “is confident of the excellent performance of APC in Oyo South and Oyo State in the general elections come 2023, as initiatives like this interactive session coupled with various reconciliatory moves will certainly yield positive engagements, and give encouragement to the numerous number of party faithfuls across Oyo State.