The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq on Wednesday described the attacks on five communities in Plateau State as satanic. According to the Minister, no fewer than 4,800 people including women and children were displaced so far. Farouq who sympathised with the state government and victims of the armed banditry attacks in Garga District of Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State stated that the mayhem was unleashed on innocent citizens, especially during the Ramadan Fasting was evil. The Minister who directed the immediate deployment of relief materials including food, water, blankets and sleeping nets to the displaced victims who are currently seeking refuge in Garga Central primary school, Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State announced that relief materials were on the way to being delivered to the victims.   Five communities including Kyaram, Gyambau, Dungur, Kukawa, and Shuwaka villages under Garga District were attacked by armed bandits on Monday while scores were reportedly killed during the mayhem. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) under the Ministry accompanied by State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Joint Military Task Force, Community Leaders, Local Government Council Members and the Media are already in Plateau state for an on-the-spot assessment to ascertain the level of destruction and advice the agency appropriately. The Coordinator, NEMA North Central Zonal office Jos, Mr Eugene Nyelong who led the team confirmed that profiling and assessment of victims have begun. According to Nyelong, the assessment which commenced on Tuesday, April 12, 2022, revealed the loss of many lives and destroyed property. The number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) is said to be over 4,800 comprising mostly women and children. The Local Government Health Department through the dispensary in Garga Town is however offering skeletal medical support to the displaced persons while the Director-General of NEMA, Ahmed Mustapha Habib is working on prompt delivery of emergency humanitarian support ahead of full intervention. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE