GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has told criminals to stay clear, warning that there will be no hiding place for persons with criminal intents anywhere in the state. Speaking on Friday while handing over 100 patrol vehicles to the personnel of the Western Nigeria security network codenamed Amotekun, Makinde said the state’s security architecture was being constantly rejigged to get and deal with criminals. To boost the state security architecture, the governor said the state wais recruiting more Amotekun personnel, upgrading their communication structure, and equipping them so that they can respond adequately and promptly to crime. Makinde noted that he was informed that those he described as ‘criminal elements’ were usually imported into the state but that with the provision of security vehicles among other efforts, criminality will not fester in the state. At the event held at the state secretariat in Ibadan, Makinde added that the state planned to recruit additional 500 personnel to complement the 1,500 personnel recruited at the establishment of the Amotekun corps. He said: “To criminals and criminally-minded individuals, I was told that they usually import criminals elements into Oyo State. Well, we have the security vehicles but that is not the only thing we are doing, we are equally recruiting more Amotekun personnel, we are upgrading their communication structure, we are also equipping them so that they can respond to you adequately. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “My advice to you is, when you come to Oyo State with the intention to carry out any criminal activities, there is nowhere to hide. We will get you, we will deal with you and it will be your last operation. Please and please, stay off Oyo State.” While thanking the chairmen of the 33 local government areas of the state for keying into his vision of enhancing the operation of the Corps through a collaborative effort between the state and local governments, Makinde assured the people of the state of his commitment to a secure Oyo state as contained in his four-point roadmap to impacting the state. He added: “I want to commend our chairmen and chairperson of our local governments led by the Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, you have demonstrated that the state and the local government can work together towards achieving the same objectives. “In some states, even though the state governor would have a hand in your emergence, once they get there, they will start doing something else, but for you, you have remained aligned with the state government. “When we came up with the idea that we should equip Amotekun and create more visibility for them, you bought into it, and we agreed that you will provide some funds while the state government also provides some funds. It is a message. “Those people talking about autonomy and all that, we only need a restructured country for the parts and elements to work together. The objectives is the same. The electorate gave us their mandates to provide leadership and to provide good governance and to make their lives better, and we have demonstrated that with your support in Oyo state today, so the rest of Nigeria should take note. They can come and learn from us. “And to the good people of Oyo state, when in 2018 I put together our roadmap to accelerated development, we said this administration is going to be standing on four pillars and security is one of them. “So, to our people, we will continue to listen to you, we will continue to fulfil the promises we made to you before you gave us this made, and I want to say that, again, if you see something around your neighbourhood that should not be there, say something and it will be sorted by Amotekun.” In a brief remark, the Commissioner for Finance, Akinola Ojo, said the project was jointly financed by the 33 local governments and the state government. Receiving the patrol vans, leaders of Amotekun Corps in the state, including Retired General Kunle Togun (chairman) and retired Colonel Olayinka Olayanju (commandant), thanked the government for the donations, saying that the vehicles would improve the contributions of the Amotekun Corps in curtailing crime and criminality in the state.