Deputy Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni; Chairman of Iru/Victoria Island Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Rasheedat Adu and Chairman of State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB), Wahab Alawiye-King, have enjoined to parents consider their child upbringing as paramount than other activities, in a bid to curb moral decadence across in the country. Eshinlokun-Sanni, Adu and Alawiye-King made the plea while speaking at the 5th Ramadan lecture organised by the Tajudeen Olusi Foundation held in the Lekki axis of the state, with the theme: “Child Upbringing: Islamic Perspective,” positing that parents should consider that one major legacy they could give their children was a proper upbringing that would make them better citizens. While lamenting the manner in which parents had continued to abandon the moral upbringing of their children to chase after money, they stressed that the society where they aimed to get the funds might become unhabitable as well as inaccessible if every parent refused to retrace their footsteps and embrace their role on their children. According to them, working to earn money is not wrong but completely abandoning their role as parents remains an attitude every mother and father should desist from. The deputy speaker, in his address, stated that being a working mother does not indicate that all responsibilities should be abandoned to nannies and other relatives, calling on parents to create a close relationship with their children. “Parents need to be very observant of their children’s activities. And this will help them to be able to teach their children what they believe is good and bad.  “We should not preach prosperity to them but rather educate them on the need to be hardworking and not about the other way round,” he added. Also speaking, the council chairman, Rashidat Abiodu, argued that the role of parents does not end with giving birth to a child, saying rather it included nurturing the child to become a responsible citizen. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The council boss, who hinted that she stopped work to give her children a better upbringing, urged parents to maintain a strong relationship with their children. According to her, “giving our children a better upbringing does not mean that we will not scold them. We have to do that. And while doing that, we must ensure that we share better times and be close to them. Our relationship will make them divulge all necessary information to us. “We the mothers have to be close to our children because they need us to guide them and put their foot on the right path,” she said. Alawiye-King, who is a member of the organising committee, said that the need to educate parents on the importance of child upbringing which had been identified as a major challenge across society was part of the reasons the topic for the lecture was chosen. “We realised that this has become a major challenge that needed to be addressed and that is why the foundation decided to pick the topic, in other to proffer solutions to these challenges across the country. “And from the lecture today, we all have been enlightened by the lecturer and this I believe will help limit the moral decadence that had affected the society. “This is one of the programmes the foundation does yearly for our leader, Prince Tajudeen Olusi. This is often done to address so many ills in society,” he said. The cleric, Abdulhakeem AL-Awwal, stressed that every child remained a blessing and gift from Almighty Allah to couples, urging them to nurture them properly. The cleric, who lamented the level of moral decadence in society today which he said was due to the moral negligence of the homes where children were raised, described children as sheep and parents as shepherd assigned to manage the sheep and nurture them to adulthood. “Everyone should go back and take good care of their children. I understand that we all have to fetch what to eat but we cannot do that at the expense of the home. There is a need for a serious correlation between the home and children’s upbringing,” he admonished.