Governor of Rivers State, Nelson Wike, who is also the presidential aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said that today, Nigeria is not about North or South but who has the capacity to defeats APC in 2023. This was just as he said that “we will not allow that stupidity called no zoning to thrive and anybody who tell you no to zoning tell him we disagree”. According to him, the APC regime promises that things would be okay but today everything is in the worst position. Gov Wike stated this while addressing PDP members during his presidential campaign to Kano State on Monday. Wike also said the granting of state pardon to fomers governors convicted for corruption disgraces the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), urging the government to disbanded immediately. While on a courtesy visit to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, Wike said Nigeria is bleeding and needs people like the governor to come out and rescue it.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, Nigerians must begin to talk about the unity and togetherness of the country, beyond party lines. Gov Wike told Governor Ganduje that “there is no gainsaying that the country is not having it right, and there should be desperate efforts to save the nation and by which I’m out to right the wrongs. “If Ganduje is running for the presidency some us will quickly withdraw our ambitions, but thank God he is not running and I’m sure he will help me to make it.” In his response, Governor Ganduje said: “Party differences should not make us stupid. Our diversity is an advantage. Even though we failed to utilize our diversity, each one of us must try in his own bid to change the status quo. “In democracy, if we all belong to one party, then there is no democracy and I foresee good efforts in your presidential bids but if you will lose, you will be a good loser and live to fight a good fight.” At the PDP Secretariat, the Kano PDP Chairman Shehu Sagagi, said they will be with Wike till the end because they knew he will make it to the presidency. He said, “we are tied of religious and tribal sentiments, what we want is not Muslim or Christian leader, and that is why the stood by him no matter the intimidations.”