CITING the new judgment of the Enugu division of the Court of Appeal on defection, a Federal High Court in Abuja on Thursday refused to declare vacant the governorship seat of Ben Ayade of Cross River State, over his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Justice Taiwo Taiwo departed from his earlier judgment and held on to the decision of the Court of Appeal delivered on April 1 to the effect that defection is not an offence under the Nigerian constitution for now. The judge held that governors and their deputies can only be removed from office in line with Sections 180, 188 and 189 of the 1999 Constitution which stipulate that elective office holders can only be removed from office on account of death, resignation or impeachment. Justice Taiwo said that since defection is not one of the constitutional provisions to remove any governor, no court has power to insert such into the supreme law. He agreed with the submissions of the counsel to the governor, Chief Mike Ozekhome, that judicial precedents of a higher court must be followed by a lower one and be applied in similar matters so as to avoid judicial rascality and anarchy. The court held that although parties and facts in matter that led to the Court of Appeal’s new decision are fundamentally different from those before it except on defection alone, the application of judicial precedent must be followed and in fact, be binding on lower courts. He said, “In the instant case, since defection is not one of the conditions listed in the 1999 Constitution and since court cannot enact law or insert a new law into the constitution, I abide by the provisions of Sections 180, 188 and 189 to the effect that governors and deputies can only be removed from office on either death, resignation or impeachment.” The judge agreed with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that votes belong to political parties and that it was immoral and improper for an elected governor to move such votes to a party that lost in the same election but held that such is not an offence known to any law for now. He, therefore, refused to grant the request of the PDP to declare the governorship seat of Ayade and his deputy vacant in view of the Court of Appeal’s new decision that defection is a moral burden and not an offence. Justice Joseph Kayode Oyewole of the Court of Appeal, Enugu division, had, in a judgment delivered on April 1, 2022 held that defection is not an offence known to any law but a mere exercise of freedom of association as enshrined under Section 40. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… 