Bandits have killed the Chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Gwagwalada council, Adamu Aliyu. Aliyu was killed alongside four others near Daku Village, Dobi area of Gwagwalada, Abuja. Speaking on the matter, Usman Mohammed, the secretary of MACBAN, revealed that three other people were abducted and three more sustained gunshot injuries. They are currently receiving treatment at the University Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada. He revealed that the late Aliyu and other victims were ambushed by the gunmen last Thursday. “They were returning from Izom market in Niger State where they went to sell cows, until just one kilometre to Daku village when the bandits suddenly emerged from the bush and opened fire on the truck, killing the MACBAN chairman and four others,” he said. Security agents have since swarmed Daku village searching for the criminals. The deceased has since been buried according to Islamic rites. As of the time of filing this report, the FCT Police Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, when contacted said she is not aware of the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.