An Islamic scholar and Chief Imam of Oluyole Estate Extension, Ibadan, Alhaji Mudasir Bada has charged Nigerians to maintain peace and harmony in the country during and after Ramadan. He stated that Ramadan teaches peace and harmony and being one’s brother’s keeper. He added that Nigerians need to be cautious in whatever they do, work in harmony and desist from anything relating to enmity. He stated this during the 4th annual Ramadan lecture of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) Oyo State chapter held on Tuesday at Dapo Aderogba Hall, NUJ Secretariat in Ibadan, the state capital. Speaking on the topic “Do‘s and Don’ts of Fasting Athletes,” the Islamic scholar noted that Muslim athletes during Ramadan have no exception but must fast just like other adherents, adding that they can only suspend fasting when the athletes’ health is in jeopardy as a result of exhaustion and dehydration during competitions. He said: “Muslim athletes must apply the given wisdom of Allah to either compete or withdraw in the holy month of Ramadan observing the fast as ordained by Allah and enjoy the eternal spiritual benefit and the surprising healthy outlook which pervades the Ramadan period  “The do’s is to observe fast and don’ts is not escaping fasting in the month of Ramadan as observance in the month of Ramadan is compulsory, universal and spiritually benefiting mankind for Allah’s mercy, forgiveness and freedom from hellfire,“ he added. Also speaking Chairman, SWAN, Oyo State chapter, Niyi Alebiosu, explained that the topic was chosen to enlighten athletes about fasting during Ramadan. He added that the lecture is necessary because there are some athletes who don’t know what to do in a competition during Ramadan. He said that: “The lecture is targeted at passing a message to athletes and sports stakeholders.“ YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.