Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ilorin zonal command, has arrested one Fidelis Poor, a member of a syndicate who allegedly connived to defraud a first-class traditional ruler in Kwara State, His Royal Highness Idris Sero Abubakar, to the tune of N33,399,999.00. In a statement by the Head, Media and Publicity of the anti-graft agency, Wilson Uwujaren, on Monday, the suspect, Fidelis, 30, hails from Stwue in Konshisha Local Government Area of Benue State. He said that the suspect, alongside other suspects (still at large) allegedly conspired to swindle the monarch under the guise that he had a container of goods meant to be used for the development of the Okuta community and due to be cleared at Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport in Abuja. HRH Idris Abubakar, who is the Emir of Okuta in the Baruten Local Government Area of the State, was a former member of the House of Representatives. “In a petition dated November 30, 2021, the Emir alleged that a group of fraudsters who operate as a syndicate called him on phone sometime last year that he had a container to clear in Abuja and requested for the said amount for clearance. “The monarch stated that the syndicate provided different accounts for him to pay ‘the money for the clearance of the goods’, one of which included that of Fidelis Poor. According to him, the fraudsters thereafter asked him to call one ‘Evangelist Rose Marry Oni (JP)’ for handing over the container.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “He further stated that efforts to get the goods delivered or recoup his money had been unsuccessful, hence he petitioned the EFCC. “The Commission upon the receipt of the petition commenced discrete investigation into the matter, which led to his (Fidelis) arrest. “The suspect will be arraigned upon the conclusion of an investigation, while efforts are ongoing to get other members of the syndicate arrested.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs EFCC nabs syndicate member who duped Kwara monarch of N33.3m Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa EFCC nabs syndicate member who duped Kwara monarch of N33.3m