The new Rector of Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara, Delta State, Professor Emmanuel Ufuophu-Biri, has said that his administration will reposition the institution and improve the welfare of students and staff to create a conducive learning atmosphere. The Professor of Mass Communication and Journalism from Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, made the promise in his acceptance speech during a handover/send-off and welcoming ceremony held on Wednesday, at Chief Onanefe Ibori Auditorium, Otefe-Oghara, Delta State. The alumnus of the University of Ibadan and outgoing Director, Pre-Degree Programme, DELSU, who thanked Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for the honour to serve, said that no student or staff would be unjustly rusticated, expelled or dismissed if rules were obeyed and mutual relationship between staff and students enhanced. Ufuophu-Biri, who was a former Head of Department, Mass Communication and the Associate Dean of Students’ Affairs of DELSU, harped on encouraging self-development and promotion as and when due among staff, saying that a motivated staff will be effective and productive. “I will meet with different bodies within the institutions for us to interact on staff and students welfare. “A well-motivated staff is more active in labour and will lead to better productivity. I want staff who will interact with the international community. “Why do you think they are saying some schools are the best or they are better than others? They are considered the best because of the quality of staff that they have. “When you don’t have good staff, you can’t have best students. So, students should always see the staff as father and mother figures. “I will discuss with the Dean of students to take some students out of the country occasionally to see how things are done. We will take discipline very seriously. “By the Grace of God, no students will be expelled or suspended. What I mean by that is that all students will keep to the rules; because if you don’t keep to the rules, the rules apply. “No staff will be dismissed, reprimanded or sacked. I want to see more lecturers promoted. Once you’re due for promotion, you will be promoted. We are not here to take away bread from you,” he reiterated amid a rousing ovation. The versatile broadcaster and scholar urged lecturers of the institution to give their students maximum attention, just as he craved for mutual respect and understanding among teaching staff, non-teaching staff and students of the institution. He commended the outgoing Rector, Prof. Emmanuel Apoyi-Ogujor, for the legacy he has left behind in the institution, assuring him that he would build on his achievements. Earlier in his parting shot, the outgoing Rector, Prof. Apoyi-Ogujor, after assessing his performance of five years in the saddle, said he was leaving the institution better than he met it. Prof. Apoyi-Ogujor reflected on his management of over 12,000 students, over 500 staff and 300 ad-hoc staff, attributing his successes to God and the huge support from both academic, non-academic staff, students and the polytechnic community. He particularly thanked the state governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, for the opportunity to serve, adding that the sacrifices of all stakeholders contributed to his achievements in his tenure which included the ranking of the institution as Number Seven in the country, overall best in Delta State, establishment of a water factory, ultramodern auditorium and establishment of an FM Station for the Department of Mass Communication, among others. How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team