Nigerians have been charged to take ownership of the 2023 general elections and screen all aspirants for presidential elections. Global accredited mediator and President, Mediation Training Institute (MTI- Nigeria), Ambassador Ogunyannwo said this in Abuja at the launch of the “International Day of Appreciation.” Ogunyannwo who said this, stated that Nigerians should screen out the less competent aspirants for all elective offices at the national and subnational levels to breed growth development which the people desire. Ogunyannwo who said the launch would lead to annual observance of the “National Appreciation Day” every April 2nd, said Nigerians must challenge the leadership to be innovative in dealing with national problems. His words: “We have leaders who have thinking deficiency, they travel out and you see them behaving well, they come back and you see them misbehaving. “Part of what I expect to be done to our leaders is to screen them properly even their mental state. Some of them are normal, you see the way they behave, you wonder if they are normal, that person you are seeing today as stranger is your unknown cousin, you are yet to have met. “In a country where you have over 250 ethnic groups you must be sensitive to those differences among us by appreciating, and asking what if and am in the other person’s shoes. “Anybody going into any elective position, let there be a form they fill, to track some of these things that make them become effective leaders, he submitted In her submission, Clementina Okolo, a mediator, maintained that, “I believe in a united Nigeria; a peaceful Nigeria where everyone would be happy, where everyone would come together and develop our country. We have a lot of human capacity and natural resources. When we harness these together, Nigeria will be a fantastic and beautiful place to be.” She said political leaders are truly servants of the people and not lord’s as they have mistaken their roles. “You are a political leader, you are a servant to the people. You have to serve. I believe that with what is happening all over the country, we really have to tell ourselves the truth, work with genuine heart, and extend that love to others. “And when we work together to look into our problems and genuinely start looking for how to solve our problems, we will definitely have development. Because we have to lift love for our future generation. “I beg our leaders to tell themselves the truth and work for the unity of the nation. Above all, look at what’s happening around and work together to leave a beautiful platform for our children and our generation yet unborn,” she concluded 