I am much concerned about the youths and clerics of the North. This is because their stance and debate on critical national issues, and challenges that need cogent attention are not encouraging.  Challenges in northern Nigeria have manifested in widespread poverty, hunger, insurgency, mutual suspicion and disunity. The whole of the North-West is engulfed in an imbroglio, which only God knows when it shall end. All these are clearly taking a toll on the youths and clerics from this region. They shy away from analysing and discussing the challenges bedeviling their region. As it is now, northern youths tend to lessen the impact of their problems on unserious issues on the social media. Politicians are successful in maintaining their status quo, through hegemony.  Our clerics are also not left out in this battlefield. Ordinarily and if we were living in a sane environment, the job of the clerics would be to strengthen the moral fabric of the nation. However, this is far from it. It is quite painful and disheartening. They tend to neglect addressing our problems, and call on the government to quickly and swiftly set measures, so as to curtail further devastation. Instead, they choose to set «Interfaith» clashes as topics for discussion. Northerners why do we tend to be quiet about our problems? Then history will never forgive us. Abdulazeez Alhassan, Kano. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents  In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Why the North  Why the North Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Why the North  Why the North