Gunmen on Easter Sunday visited the Oko community, close to the Federal Polytechnic, Oko, Anambra State, invading a fast food joint. Tribune Online gathered that the gunmen came into Sophia Fast Food, but failed to harm the fun-seekers, who were obviously enjoying themselves for the Easter celebration. A source said they simply disposed of all customers and staff of the eatery of their phones and left the area without any challenge, despite an armoured car and security personnel positioned in the area. A Facebook user, Iyke Orji said: “Nobody was killed, nobody was shot. “Even the new police armoured tank Governor Soludo stationed at Oko Police station with new policemen didn’t repel them. “They came to Sophia fast foods Oko, yes, a fast food. They collected all the phones of people eating there. They now set fire to the frontage of the fast food.  “Sophia fast foods just opened a new branch in Ekwulobia and people are thinking if it was a calculated attempt by competitors,” Orji said. Reacting to the incident, the state public relations officer of Anambra State Police Command, DSP Ikenga Tochukwu, in a statement, urged victims of the incident to come forward and report for proper investigation. The statement read; The Anambra State Police Command today 18/4/2022 wishes to urge the victims of unconfirmed reports going around the media tagged “Anambra: Gunmen Visit Eatery on Easter Day, Rob Fun-seekers of Mobile Phones.” to come forward and report. This will help police with the necessary information to investigate and deploy personnel in this regard. This will also help to avert such incidents from reoccurring in the area or any place in the state. However, the Command urged citizens especially Ndi Anambra to always report any security incident witnessed to the nearest Police station or through the Command Emergency numbers 112, call 07039194332 or Command PRO on 08039334002 for a prompt response. In addition, the NPF rescue me app is also available for free download on both Android and Apple IOS, for Android and iPhone users respectively. The Command while calling for increased information flow from the public to the police, assures that, it will not fold her hands and allow some disgruntled elements to make life unbearable for the residents. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gunmen rob fun-seekers  Gunmen rob fun-seekers Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gunmen rob fun-seekers  Gunmen rob fun-seekers