Worried about low yield and poor information regarding cashew production, the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN) in conjunction with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has trained 100 cashew farmers across Oyo State. The training held in Ogbomoso featured various sessions where cashew farmers were trained on best practices for cashew along the value chain. Setting the tone for the training, executive director, Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN), Dr Patrick Adebola explained that the training is targeted at updating cashew farmers’ knowledge on ways to boost production, improving yield quality to meet international standards and generating more income. In the large run, Adebola said having well-informed cashew farmers will increase the nation’s Gross Democratic Product (GDP), foreign exchange earnings from the sales of cashew nuts, and reduce the nation’s over-independence on crude oil, as well as have more empowered Nigerians. Also speaking, Trade Promotion Advisor, Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Ibadan office, Mrs Bolanle Emmanuel bemoaned that cashew farming is not optimized in Nigeria. She noted that there were so many uses and agricultural practices in cashew production which many cashew farmers were ignorant about hence were not making enough money that they should.  Noting high consumption of carbonated drinks in the country, she bemoaned there was a lot of focus on cashew nuts whereas juice, oil, butter can also be derived from cashew and other fruits. Emmanuel noted that apart from poor information about good agricultural practices and business practices, she lamented that cashew farmers also grappled with poor equipment needed to optimize cashew production. In their various sessions, resource persons to include Anthony Agbongiarhuoyi, Dr C.O. Jayeola, Dr Dele Adeniyi, Dr O.S. Ibiremo charged those trained should disseminate the information gathered to other fellow farmers. In his remarks, Chairman, National Cashew Association of Nigeria, Oyo State, Mr Kamorudeen Alagbe bemoaned that cashew farmers faced challenges of lack of jut bags, poor storage facility and the fact that heavy rain affects cashew yield and farming. He, however, said such trainings on cashew production were critical in enlightening cashew farmers on how to optimize cashew farming to make more money. Speaking, state commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Adeniyi Adebisi decried that the state grappled not only with low yield but also that cashew farmers smuggle cashew to neighbouring states for grading. He noted that the culture of some cashew farmers grading outside the state continues to deprive the state of accurate data about the metric tonnes done. Adebisi, represented by general manager, Tree Crops Development Unit, Mr Yemi Akinyinka, added that cashew farmers also faced poor access to good planting materials as well as the fact that they do not have up-to-date knowledge about changing cashew production practices. He assured the state government was helping to improve cashew production in the state through distribution of good inputs and planting materials to farmers at subsidized prices. Adebisi added that the state was keying into the West Africa Cashew Project (PRO-cashew) that is being funded by United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in part of cashew producing areas of the State. The federal government had in February signed a memorandum of understanding with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) West Africa Pro-Cashew project to develop the cashew agro industry. The Memorandum with the USDA pro-cashew project has the aim to increase production from 260,000 to 350,000 tonnes and processing capacity from 15 percent to 35 percent by 2023. During the signing of the MOU, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Nanono said the initiative will improve productivity, expand the national hectareage of the crop and help achieve national food and nutrition security, revenue generation, exchange earnings, wealth creation and employment.