The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, on Saturday, urged the people of the state to observe a one-day prayer session to curb the activities of the gunmen terrorising the state and the South East region in general. The governor said the prayer session slated to hold on Monday, April 4, 2022, at churches and other religion worshipping centres, across the state, was neccesary to counter the evil attached to the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) sit-at-home order. He explained that the prayer session was against those hiding under the IPOB name to cause havoc in the state. Speaking during a stakeholders peace meeting with Security Chiefs, Traditional Rulers and Religious Leaders, at Prof. Dora Akuyilli Women Development Centre Awka, Soludo also said the move became necessary to seek spiritual solution to the challenges currently affecting economic activities. He implored citizens and residents of the state as well as all religious congregations to join in the important day of prayer expected to take place within the premises of Cathedrals, Churches and prayer Houses across the state and beyond. “I enjoin you to pause and join in fellowship as we seek the face of God. It is expected that the conclusion of the prayer session shall mark the end of Sit At Home in Anambra State.” The governor stressed that it was clear to all that the order was ill advised and counter productive and not the solution to the release of the Leader of IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, adding that effort was being made to ensure speedy resolution of his detention. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He insisted that every Monday, was a very important day to Ndi-Anambra and the government, which he said the state loses millions of naira as a result of the order. Soludo used the peace meeting to announce that soon the government under his watch will establish a registration centre to rehabilitate louts, illegal tax collectors and other criminal elements and empower them to become useful to their families, communities, the state, the region and the country at large. Nigerian Tribune gathered that IPOB had last year ordered the people of the South-East to stay at home every Monday, in a bid to force the Federal Government to release its detained leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, from detention.