A country that fails in the education sector has woefully failed in everything. This is because of the well-known fact that knowledge is power. Everybody is saying that the youths of today are tomorrow’s leaders even when there are inadequacies in the educational system in the country. Apparently, Nigerian students are lagging behind globally as a result of the incessant strike actions embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). This does not encourage students to focus on their academic activities. Those who are courageous among them usually engage in learning one trade or the other so as to keep themselves busy. Sadly, however, others have become associated with notorious gangs who perpetrate evil across the country. The incessant strikes by ASUU limit students’ ability to be efficient and dynamic in the course of their studies. They may be quite below par compared to other students globally. The best student in Nigeria may be no more than an average student in the United States. Nigerian students are brilliant but the people in authority should encourage them by acceding to their lecturers’ demands. I, therefore, urge ASUU and the Federal Government to find lasting solutions to the incessant strike actions before they wreak further havoc on the future of the Nigerian students. Rev. Oladimeji Michael Olalekan, Lagos. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws.  Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.