A group under the Auspices of Equal Right And Value Gender Advocacy Forum has frowned on the call by Nollywood actress, Georgina Onuoha for the revocation of the medical licences of Pastor Paul Enenche of Dunamis International Gospel Centre and his wife, Becky, following the death of gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu. The group in a statement by its National Coordinator, Mr Johnson Obiora, made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, further described Onuoha’s statement as a misplaced priority and baseless call, adding that recent issue on the ground has nothing to do with the medical licence of the Dunamis pastor and his wife. Obiora added that both Dr Enenche and his wife are qualified medical practitioners in Nigeria, and are legally registered to practice medicine in Nigeria. He said the Nigerian Medical Council has a constitution with explicit provisions on what disqualifies a medical doctor in the Federal Republic of Nigeria if need be, and not by a mere call of a Nollywood actress.  The group said the revocation of the licence can only be contemplated when the practitioner is unable to carry out his duties as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution on the ground of misconduct, unprofessionalism, insanity or ill health. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to Obiora; “It is regrettable and despicable that despite these clear provisions of the constitution, some persons lurking under the cloak of quasi-celebrity personality and looking for cheap popularity choose to amplify calls for revocation of the licence of medical doctors turned great man and woman of God. “Anybody that follows the ministry of Dr Enenche and his wife will testify that they both preach against abusive marriage and have always condemned it in totality. “The call for revocation of his license is preposterous and begotten from sheer bitterness. The senior pastor of Dunamis is a strong man of God that has also paid his dues both in medical professional and ministry and both the service of the nation at large. “What then is the justification for these calls? “The call to revoke his license and that of his wife is not only unfortunate but irresponsible and myopic.”