Gbemileke Banjo, Founder of Vans and Resà Realty and Lifestyle firm, is a certified realtor from the School of Estate Maryland. In this interview by Faith Adeoye, she talks about her journey in real estate, her passion for business, challenges in Nigeria’s real estate sector, among other issues. Excerpts:  What informed your decision to start Vans and Resà Realty and Lifestyle firm? It was just a dream that I brought to life. Years back, I worked at an Asset & Investment Institution (Apel Asset) that provides solution to wealth management and that got me motivated to start up a real estate firm.  The main inspiration for starting this firm is my entrepreneurial spirit. There are also successful people I admire, a history of entrepreneurs in my family and environment has been my major influence and I have strong desire to succeed for a purpose much bigger than me. The firm got a vision of transforming people’s lives and the environment. Earning the respect of my clients and business acquaintances.  How would you describe your experience so far in the real estate industry? My experience so far in the real estate sector has been innovative. I have had opportunities to travel overseas and partner with big firms. I have experienced both the ups and downs on the job.  What qualities make you a good realtor and what set you apart from your competitors? Qualities? Let me list some; knowledge is power. I have made good network connections in the real estate business, understanding the local housing market, paying attention and I have a personal interest in houses and architecture. It’s a whole lot actually, I don’t just sell properties, I sell my personality.  What are the current challenges in Nigeria’s real estate sector? To start with, I would say activities of bogus people who pose as estate agents and commit fraud, hence shaking the confidence of property owners in releasing their properties to agents. And of course, there are lots of properties with exorbitant prices with little or low request from clients/property buyers. Furthermore, the rate of sexual harassment  faced by female realtors is quite sad. I believe we could do better as humans.  How do you think the government can address some of these challenges? Basically with my knowledge, we should have legislators in both state and national assemblies enact laws to regulate the anomalies. Also, attention should be paid to sexual harassment and all other related complaints. This way, real estate in Nigeria would get better and could move forward.  What is the motivation that has kept you going? I would say my zeal to be successful. Although, I must say it’s not been easy. I’ve faced lots of challenges, disappointments, losses, roadblocks, setbacks, breakdowns,  pains and also have had more wins. But I’ve always had this teeth- gritting tenacity to always hold on and to never quit regardless of my situation. I think this has helped me and my firm.  Where do you see your Vans and Resà Realty & Lifestyle firm in the next five years? I see Vans and Resá realty at the top. Creating more job opportunities, Providing & Setting a Wide Ranging System of Investment Plans, Developing & Delivering Standard Properties. 