No fewer than two persons lost their lives in a ghastly motor accident that occurred along Ipetu-Ijesa/Ilesa road in Osun State on Sunday. The accident which involved two vehicles, a truck and a Nissan Premia with registration number, WEN 397 AA, reportedly happened in the afternoon and left other occupants of the Premia vehicle injured. Six persons including three children said to be victims of the fatal incident, out of which two children lost their lives and four others were seriously injured. Speaking on the incident, the spokesperson of Osun Command of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Agnes Ogungbemi, said two female children died in the accident while injured victims were taken to Wesley hospital Ilesa. According to her, the accident was probably caused by a tyre burst, speed limit violation and wrongful overtaking. She further hinted that the corpses of the deceased had been deposited at the Wesley hospital, Ilesa morgue. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’ 
A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite.