To ensure accident-free Easter celebrations, Bauchi State Command of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC), has deployed a total of 858 personnel made regular and special marshals. The deployment is tagged ‘2022 Easter Special Patrol Operations’ will run from 13th – 20th April 2022 and it will cover all the routes across the state. According to the Sector Commander, Yusuf Abdullahi, there will be 6 ambulances and one heavy-duty tow truck that will be patrolling the routes to attend to emergency situations. He also stated that the Station Offices in the Twenty LGAs of the State have been fully activated to ensure prompt response to Road Traffic Issues, clear obstructions, roads traffic crashes (RTC), public enlightenment (PE) and traffic control.  The Sector Commander added that two roadside clinics have been set up to manage RTC victims and the immediate community where they are stationed. He also said that five help areas have been positioned in all the routes in and out of Bauchi State. To achieve the set objectives, aggressive public enlightenment, effective utilisation of media, Local associations, community and religious leaders remain major stakeholders in this crusade of safety during and after the festival. Yusuf Abdullahi then assured that operations activities will remain 24/7 throughout the 7 days of the program. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Easter celebration: Easter celebration: FRSC deploys 858 regular, special marshals to Bauchi roads Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu Easter celebration: FRSC deploys 858 regular, special marshals to Bauchi roads