The president, Grade A Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State, Mrs S.M Akintayo, has adjourned till May 9, the continuation of hearing in a divorce case between a couple, Olayinka Ajanaku and Akinola Ajanaku. Olayinka had approached the court, praying that it ended her 10-year-old wedlock with her husband on the grounds of irresponsibility and brutality by the latter. The plaintiff further pleaded with the court, if her prayer was answered, to grant her custody of their only child whom he had denied her access to. Both were in court. Olayinka giving an account of her experience in her relationship with Akinola said: “Akinola and I met and dated between 2010 and 2012. “I am 39 years old while my husband is 62 years old. I fell in love with him because he is handsome. I also felt that because he is far older than I am, that he would take good care of me.  “Unfortunately, all my dreams and hopes became shattered as he gradually revealed his real self as we moved deeper into our marriage,” the plaintiff said. She added: “I discovered soon after we got married that my husband was a leech who depends on others for survival. “Akinola is lazy and as such not gainfully employed. He lazes away day after day and depends solely on his parents for livehood. “My husband is in the habit of selling off his parents’ properties and squanders the proceeds from these on alcohol and women. “Since he is good looking and being a socialite, women flock round him every day and everywhere. “He has a high taste but lacks the financial strenght to back it up. “We settled in Lagos and rented houses in high brow areas but we were constantly ejected by our landlords as a result of lack of payment of accumulated rent. “Feeling disgrace and humiliated, we decided to move to Ibadan to cover our shame. “We again rented an apartment of about N2.7 million, but again we were thrown out because my husband couldn’t pay the rent. “The only option we were left with was to move into my mother- in-law’s house also located in a high brow area in Ibadan. “My husband’s sibling fed up with his shameful lifestyle refused that we moved into the house. They only yielded after I went to plead with my mother in-law to grant us grace to stay in her building. “We were given just two rooms to occupy. This was a relief, but it was short lived because we were later handed a letter to quit the apartment because my husband never ceased to be irresponsible,” she explained. Olayinka added, “My lord, my husband is a brute. He was in the habit of beating me in the presence of our son. “He is also hostile to my first child who I had for another man before I met him. I ended up putting my first child in a boarding school since he hates to see him. “Akinola beat me and almost maimed me in October 2021 after I demanded that he should be up to his responsibility in the home. “He later threw out my belongings. I refused to leave his house and went to work. “He reported me at the police station and I was invited by the police. I didn’t go until the fourth day. “There, I was informed that my husband stated that I poured salt into his car engine. “I wasn’t surprised he could tell such a lie because that has been his lifestyle,” she stated. The plaintiff explained that, “I am the one running the home.  I feed my husband and our son. I am also responsible for our son’s school fees which is very high because we enrolled him in an elite school. “Unfortunately for our son, we kept changing him from one school to another since we found it hard meeting the demands of his education. “My husband finally sent me packing after we had a quarrel and he dealt with me brutally. “He has since then denied me access to our son whom he refused I take along with me. “He refused that I communicate with him. “Akinola takes our son to the club and there he drinks, smokes and womanises in his presence. “He now gives our son beer to drink and takes him along to his girlfriends’ houses. “My lord, Akintola is not working. He is also morally bankrupt and therefore can’t raise our son properly. “I pray this honourable court to dissolve our marriage and grant me custody of our only child so that I can give him the necessary attention,” the plaintiff pleaded.