Head of the Department of Music, Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, Professor Ovaborhene Idamoyibo, who was kidnapped on April 9, 2022, has passed on. He was, however, reportedly released at midnight of Easter Sunday and dumped unconscious on a lonely bridge in Abraka. Some passersby thereafter stumbled on his nearly lifeless body and immediately rushed him to one Dunflox Hospital in Abraka for a first-aid treatment to stabilise him. He was, thereafter, referred to the DELSU Teaching Hospital, Oghara, on Easter Monday, where it was gathered that his condition further deteriorated. A family source said he must have died on the way to the hospital before doctors pronounced him dead at Delta State Teaching Hospital (DELSUTH). Our correspondent had reported that Prof. Idamoyibo was kidnapped at Eku, Ethiope East Local Government Area of the state, while on his way back to Abraka after a family meeting in Sapele.  The kidnappers had demanded N50, 000,000 as a ransom for his release, but later haggled to N3, 000, 000 which was reportedly paid. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu Kidnapped DELSU lecturer released unconscious, dies after alleged payment of N3m ransom