The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Zoning Committee led by Governor Sam Ortom of Benue State recommended the jettisoning of the zoning principle for the 2023 presidential election. This is despite affirming the initiative as the best way to select its flagbearer. The committee, which met in Abuja on Tuesday, has resolved to recommend to the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), that the position should be open to all interested aspirants from all parts of the Federation because of the exigency of the time. It posited that the party should endeavour to take a position on the zoning of its presidential ticket at least six months before the commencement of the sale of nomination forms. After presiding over the meeting of the 37-man committee, Ortom only disclosed that there was a unanimous agreement on the way forward without giving a hint on its decision. “We have just finished our meeting, after we rose from our meeting last week, today we decided that we would meet and by the Grace of God we have unanimously adopted a position that will be sent to the NEC of our Party that appointed us. “The good news for our teaming supporters of the PDP and Nigerians is that we have resolved and every one of us, the 37 members unanimously adopted the position that we are going to present to NEC,” he said But sources close to the meeting volunteered that the committee has indeed knocked out the question of zoning. The committee resolved ad follows: “Zoning, as in our party constitution, is affirmed; Inspite of (1) above; Ticket is thrown Open, this time around due to exigency of time; Our Party is encouraged to always make the issue of zoning very clear at least 6 months before sales of forms; Our Party should commend the efforts of some our contestants on the issue of Consensus candidacy; the efforts should be seen to a peaceful and logical conclusion.” At least, 13 politicians under the party from different zones of the country have already collected the expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the presidential ticket of the main opposition party. Meanwhile, former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, has resigned his membership of the PDP Zoning Committee, citing his desire to vie for the presidential ticket of the party. In a letter addressed to the chairman of the committee and the National Chairman of the party dated 5th April 2022, he also announced his replacement from the state. He stated in the letter that has indicated his intention to join the presidential race, “it will not be morally right to continue to participate in the zoning debate being an aspirant myself.” Part of the letter reads: “I write to formally appreciate the Party and all members of this committee. “I thank you all for your statesmanship, selflessness and sense of patriotism to our party and by extension our nation in the way you have all handled and comported yourselves so far in deliberations regarding this delicate and sensitive issue/assignment, the Zoning of public offices, particularly that of the President. “I pray the outcome will bring understanding, peace and stability to our party and our country at large. “Having hinted during our last meeting of my intention to run for the office of the President in the coming primary election and by God’s grace; the general election, it will not be morally right to continue to participate in the zoning debate being an aspirant myself. “Therefore, my state has nominated the bearer of this letter, Dr Gbenga Faseluka to replace me.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…