Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra State has appointed his Press Secretary Media, Mr Christian Aburime, and seven other political appointees to his administration. Other appointees are; Mr Chukwuemeka Fred Agbata, MD/CEO of ICT Agency, Mr Chike Anyaonu, MD/CEO of Anambra State Housing Development Corporation, Mr Joe Anatune, MD/CEO of Anambra State Signage and Advertising Agency, Arch. Okey Ezeobi, GM/CEO Anambra State Bureau of Public Procurement, Barr Tochukwu Nweke, Special Adviser Legal, Dr Nelson Omenugha, Special Adviser on Youth Empowerment Programme and Bob-Manuel Udokwu, Special Adviser Entertainment, Leisure and Tourism. The appointment announcement was contained in a statement by Sir Paul Nwosu, Commissioner for Information & Public Enlightenment, Anambra State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.  If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Soludo appoints press secretary, seven others Soludo appoints press secretary, seven others