The Lagos State Government has shut down Chrisland Schools in the state following allegations of sexual violence involving students of the school including a 10-year-old girl. According to a statement issued by the State Ministry of Education, the government said it has commenced an investigation into the case. It would be recalled that the mother of the 10-year-old girl had raised the alarm over the culpability of Chrisland School in the alleged rape of her child in a video circulating online. Listen to what her mom said She’s 10 cowgirl chrisland school pic.twitter.com/7H9unei9zx — Gagaso (@Gagaso6) April 18, 2022  Also going viral online are videos reportedly showing the girl in compromising positions while participating in a ‘Truth or Dare’ game with other students who recently travelled to Dubai for World School Games.   Meanwhile, the government also warned all those circulating the sex tape of the students that they risk 14 years of jail term. The statement read: “The attention of the Lagos State Government has been drawn to the alleged sexual violence case involving students of Chrisland school. “It is pertinent to note that all allegations are being investigated by the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies, including the Ministry of Education, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Ministry of Justice and the Lagos State Domestic & Sexual Violence Agency, whilst the criminal allegations have been escalated to the Commissioner of Police. “In view of the allegations, we are committed to ensuring that adequate medical and psychosocial support is provided. This is to reassure members of the public of the State Government’s commitment to safety and child protection, especially in ensuring that all child-centred institutions within the state, formulate and implement policies and systems that are compliant with the Executive Order (NO.EO/AA08 of 2016), Lagos State Safeguarding and Child Protection Program. “We also use this medium to remind the general public of the implications pertaining to engaging in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child who commits an offence and is liable to a custodial sentence of fourteen (14) years. This includes ‘producing, distributing, receiving, or possessing an image of child pornography.” “In the meantime, all Chrisland schools within Lagos State are hereby closed, pending further investigations.”    Tribune Online also found a letter dated April 14, 2022, where the school reportedly suspended the girl for carrying out an immoral act after the lights out instruction was given. The letter signed by the school headteacher, Mrs G.I. Azike, and first published by an online-based news platform read: “It was discovered that your daughter was involved in improper behaviour during the recently concluded World School Games in Dubai. “(Names withheld) with a few of her counterparts willfully participated in a game they called ‘Truth or Dare’, a game which led her and a few other co-learners to carry out the immoral act after the lights out instruction was given. “In line with our core values centred on discipline, Chrisland Schools have zero tolerance for any improper behaviour and misconduct. “A full-scale investigation has been done and the parents of all the culpable. learners have been duly notified of the necessary punishment meted out on the learners. The parents gave their full cooperation realizing the need to work with the school so that the learners can be corrected and be of expected proper behaviour henceforth. “However, in the course of the school’s efforts to see how best we can help who was a major participant In the whole incident, every effort to inform you as her parent about the incident and ensure that this improper behaviour is permanently corrected, has proved to be futile. “We cannot as a school condone such. Consequently, is hereby placed on indefinite suspension until you as the parents ensure that she is punished, adequately counselled and rehabilitated. “However, if you need our assistance in any form to rehabilitate school is willing to assist.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE