The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna state, has tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to provide vinegar of succour to Nigerians before he leaves power next year as they are thirsty. In a statement titled, ‘Nigerians are Thirsty’ signed by the state chairman of the body, Rev Joseph John Hayab and made available to the Nigerian Tribune on Thursday, CAN noted that Nigerians are celebrating Jesus’ victory at Easter with a dry throat, dry stomach, and dry lifestyle are because of the failure of the successive administrations as well as the existing one. Citing biblical verse John 19: 28-29 records that Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, “I thirst. Now, there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and the soldiers lifted a sponge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth.” According to him, Jesus in the last days and hours of his agony made many spiritual revelations about life and how to address human, spiritual, and physical needs.  The man of God stated that Jesus on the cross shared in human pains by saying “I am thirsty, saying, like Jesus Indeed, Nigerians, nowadays, can say, like Jesus on the cross of cavalry, that they were thirsty.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The statement noted that Nigerians are thirsty due to poor economy, thirsty due to bad governance, and thirsty because of insecurity. “All the thirst experiences could lead to misery. Accordingly, celebrating Jesus’ victory at Easter with a dry throat, dry stomach, and dry lifestyle are because of the failure of the successive administrations as well as the existing one. “So, what is basic is that the government needs to provide cold water to quench the thirst of Nigerians. People have been crying out loud, like Jesus on the cross, that they were thirsty, but, sadly, the leaders do not appear to care. “However, there is a lesson that I wish Nigerian leaders could learn from the soldiers that policed Jesus on the cross. When the Lord cried out of thirst, they provided vinegar for succour. “Therefore, it is a complete disservice for the government to abandon citizens in pain without showing genuine concern.” Hence, CAN appealed to the Nigerian government, both at the local, state, and federal, to take concrete steps toward providing palliatives that could quench the thirst of Nigerians. The citizens, on their part, should similarly be one another’s keepers by contributing meaningfully to national growth to support to quench the thirst of their neighbours, friends, and the less privileged near them. “May Jesus through his resurrection power quench the thirst of all humankind this Easter and after,” the statement declared.