The Minister Niger Delta Affairs (MNDA), Senator Godswill Akpabio, has reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government to provide health care services to ameliorate the challenges faced by the Niger Deltans in accessing health care facilities in their communities. The Minister, who was represented by Deputy Director, Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Architect Ndukwe Ukpai made the pledge at the commissioning and handover of Block of Health Centre at Edem Idim Ishiet, Onna L.G.A., Akwa State, during the week. He mentioned that rural residents often encounter barriers to health care that limit their ability to obtain the care they need, noting that for rural residents to have sufficient access, necessary and appropriate health services must be available and obtainable in a timely manner. “In pursuance of its statutory mandate, the Ministry commenced the construction of ‘Quick Win Intervention projects in 2017 as a palliative approach with the goal of improving the life of the people of the Niger Delta region. The construction of Health Centre in this region is geared towards making care easily accessible to the communities especially the rural areas”, the Minister said.  He described the thorough and timely execution of the project barely four months after it was awarded in 2020, noting it is the desire of the government that preference would be on people living in the rural areas and the vulnerable population. Others include women and children under the age of five years, as well as the elderly, irrespective of their locations in the country. Senator Akpabio therefore tasked the host communities to be dedicated in the protection and co-maintenance of the facilities provided by government. The facility consists of consulting rooms, male and female wards, pharmacy and dispensing unit, laboratory treatment and injection rooms, matrons’ office, nurses’ station and store. In a related development, the Minister also commissioned and handed over completed health centers, classrooms block, ICT Center in Oron Community, Oron LGA, Primary Health Centre, Oti-Oro, Okobo LGA, Construction of Maternity Ward and Nurses Office, Inua Eyet Village, Ibeno LGA, Renovation of 12 Rooms Primary Health Care Centre and Apartment, Etebi Mbakuyo, Esit Eket LGA, Renovated African Church Secondary School, Oku Iboko, Itu LGA and a block of ICT Centre at Mbak Obio, Itu LGA, of Akwa Ibom State respectively. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Babayo Ardo represented by Senior Officer, HUD, Osuzoka Nkiru, states that in spite of the many challenges encountered in the course of realizing the project, it is gratifying to note that the Ministry has enjoyed the commitment, cooperation and assistance of the youth, elders and traditional authorities of the host Edem Idim Ishiet Community. In his response, the Community Leader, His Highness, Eteidung Ezekiel, commended the Federal Government for its gesture to station the facility in the community, noting that the health care system in their communities, Local Government and State will be proactive and better ready to tackle the challenges of the people. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…