The Executive Director of the Abuja-based faith-based organisation, Al-Habibiyah Islamic Society, Imam Fuad Adeyemi, in this interview by TAOFEEK LAWAL, speaks on the essence of Ramadan, politics, roles of the religious leaders and traditional rulers in restoring sanity in Nigeria, among other issues. As the 2023 general election draws near, what is your advice for the ruling class as regards the provision of good governance and better living conditions for Nigerians? There is a dangerous trend now which I call religionisation of politics. Religious groups now ask members to vote only for people who practise their faith. This portends a great danger for the country. There is no crime in supporting your own and giving them everything to succeed but the moment politics is overtly given religious coloration, it portends danger for the country. We must not see religion as a competition and we must avoid what I refer to as the religionisation of politics in Nigeria. Also, the world is now moving in a new direction with the Russia/Ukraine war, whether we like it or not. It is now left for those contesting or competing for political positions to know more about global politics and business. You will agree with me that things have changed since February when the war started. It takes only those who have foresight to understand global trends, analyse and look at things critically on how they will benefit Nigerians and not make things more difficult for them through greed and selfishness. We should not be pawns in the hands of world powers. Our leaders must be able to take advantage of global trends in the interest of Nigerians. In essence, we must look for capable, knowledgeable and competent leaders at all levels of government as we journey to 2023. Governance is about who can do the right thing for the people with no sentiments attached. We need people with experience and exposure, people who understand what to do whenever they are faced with challenges. We need leaders who are decisive, God-fearing, intelligent, exposed and experienced. What do you have to say on the ongoing Ramadan fast? This is a time to consider the downtrodden and factor them into our Ramadan programmes. Ramadan must be able to change us and make us better human beings. At the end of the fasting period, you must be able to assess yourself and see if you have made positive impact on people’s lives. The level of moral decadence in the society today is alarming. What should be the role of religious leaders and traditional rulers in solving this problem? Those who are supposed to be role models and guides are actually the problem. How did we get to the level that religious leaders and traditional rulers are problematic and are not doing what they are supposed to do? Religious leaders are the major cause of the situation we have found ourselves in Nigeria today. Religious leaders are influential and whatever they say or do influence the people. What we have today are religious hawkers on both sides: Islam and Christianity. People think that the moment you graduate from one Islamiyya (Islamic school) and you can speak Arabic, you have become a malam, and that is where the problems start. Today, people cannot distinguish between a linguist and a religious leader. Many, especially adherents of Islam, see an Arabic linguist as Islamic leader. Some people, because they speak Arabic, are seen as religious leaders. But speaking Arabic does not qualify you to be a religious leader. These people, because they speak Arabic, are now consulted and trusted, which is not supposed to be because they do not possess any knowledge of Islam. These self-acclaimed religious leaders are the root cause of the problems we are experiencing in our society today because their followers, old and young, take whatever they say or do hook, line and sinker. Religion, as being practised today, is an alternative to politics where there is free money. To get out of this moral decadence that you have pointed out, it is high time we purged the society of bad eggs who influence our youths negatively. Religious leaders have the duty of checking the bad ones among them to restore sanity and make the younger generation imbibe moral and religious values. Your TV programme, ‘The Abrahamic Mission’, has continued to receive commendation from the viewing public. What inspired the programme? ‘The Abrahamic Mission’ is aimed at promoting religious harmony and peaceful coexistence among Nigerians. The programme has changed so many lives. It is achieving results. The Abrahamic Mission is arguably one of the most watched TV programmes in Nigeria today and the first independent programme that is simultaneously aired on television and radio. I thank Almighty Allah for the programme and for what He has used me for in this country. What is Al-Habibiyyah Islamic Society all about? Al-Habibiyah started on the 6th of January, 2003. We started by identifying three things which we knew were affecting us as a nation. These are ignorance, poverty and lack of understanding among Nigerians. You will observe that the three are interwoven. We believe that Muslims should have a clear understanding of their religion, be role models and able to attract people to Islam through their behaviour. We started through the Al-Habibiyah Academy where we teach elites how to read the Qur’an in four months and we have been very successful. In fact, we have taught governors, ministers, directors and permanent secretaries. This has to do with education. We are also into poverty alleviation or eradication through the Al-Habibiyah Food Bank established about 15 years ago. The food bank feeds people during Ramadan, not only Muslims but all who come around. It will interest you to know that the United States government, in 2012, gave Al-Habibiyah an award for humanitarian services. The award was not given to anybody before us and has not been given to anyone since 2012. In 2018, we received another award in Windhoek, Namibia, with about four presidents in attendance because of the programme, Al-Habibiyah Food Bank. This has led us to what we call Al-Habibiyah Zakat Foundation where we have empowered a lot of people, Muslims and Christians. Also, COVID-19 made us establish the ‘Do Something Initiative’ where you can borrow money with zero interest and which has changed many lives. We are working on our cooperative society as well. All these are meant to lift people out of poverty. You need not know anybody before you are part of these aforementioned initiatives. We have spent more than N80 million in the last 14 years and the number of people that have benefitted cannot be less than 1,000. Thanks to Almighty Allah and to those who have been providing the money to help the people. On the issue of unity, we have been involved in many inter-faith programmes to make sure that we understand one another. These are the three cardinal areas (ignorance, poverty and understanding) which we have identified and are working on. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…We must avoid religionisation  We must avoid religionisation Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…We must avoid religionisation  We must avoid religionisation