Presidential aspirant and Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, has met with PDP National Assembly Caucus in his latest round of consultation over his intention to vie for the party’s ticket, stressing the need to strip the Federal Government of its excess powers. Speaking at the meeting in Abuja, on Tuesday night, he noted that there is over-concentration of power at the centre, insisting that there must be devolution of more powers to states and local governments to create a more functional nation. The presidential aspirant who is also the Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, said: “The centre is overloaded. And we really need to go back to the local government and state where the people are and give them more responsibilities and more resources, and that is how we are going to do it.” The Sokoto State Governor, while soliciting for the support of the federal lawmakers to emerge as the presidential flag bearer of the PDP, pointed out that he has the capacity, ability, intelligence and experience among others to govern the country as well proffer solutions to the various problems plaguing the country. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He explained: “Why I am here is because of what I tried in 2018. And to the glory of God, God made this possible for Atiku Abubakar to emerge as our party’s flagbearer in P/ Harcourt. The season is here again and I have the strength and support of several well-meaning leaders and members of our party to try again and see this time around, If I can make it to be the standard flag bearer of our party come our convention on May 28, 29, this year, God willing. “The issues are very clear, the issues of 2018 have not left us they are still very, very valid and very much around us and they have refused to go away. Why? Because of bad governance. Bad governance of the administration at the centre and I believe that in the PDP we have, what it takes to provide solutions as you have often done on the floor of the Senate and in the House of Representatives, providing alternative views. “I have noted a number of contributions which you have made individually and collectively as a caucus on the way forward for this country, on issues of corruption, on issues of insecurity, on issues of economy and general unemployment and general state of our country. “Something has to be done as quickly as possible as Nigeria, clearly, is on the brinks. And we can only do that through a democratic process. “The democratic process is for us to have a standard-bearer that can, by the grace of God, marshal all that it takes for us to really have our hands on the deck in solving the various issues. “It is a job that all of us must contribute to and we must source for and identify those individuals that have the capacity to man and indeed take charge of certain sub-sectors of policy and governance and unless we are able to do that to assemble a marshal of team, irrespective of wherever someone is coming from, either by his ethnicity, his region state or his religion, we may not really get it right. “So I am sure I can convey to you the message that: I believe that in this country, we have right people. “What we require is that leadership that can identify those people and charge them with the responsibility of doing and discharging those responsibilities, that they are competent enough to handle and it’s not rocket science.” How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Tambuwal insists on power devolution in meeting with PDP NASS’ caucus Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Tambuwal insists on power devolution in meeting with PDP NASS’ caucus