The CEO, Audacia Prime Realty Limited, Mr Bright Sekoni has affirmed the company’s goal of building a conglomerate of millennial and Generation Z (Gen-Z) landlords and landladies in the country through its digital real estate and property development scheme. Addressing journalists at the company’s head office in Lekki, Sekoni said, “We are trying to make property easily accessible to young people, that within 24 hours of payment, they will get documents for the worth of property paid for. We understand how this generation does not like to stress things, and that’s why we have worked on taking our sales and services to them.” “The affordability of our properties made us a toast for these targeted people. We understand that not many of them have millions of Naira in their possession, considering their age and their employment status, but our payment plans are quite easy for them to own houses of their own. While fielding questions on the company’s recent project, Sekoni asserted, “We are presently launching Epe Gardens scheme 2 in Mojoda, it’s an investment property that is bound to develop in a few years. We also have PrimRose Estate which is located at Ijebu-ode/Epe toll gate selling for a discounted price of N500,000, it comes inclusively with documentation but the buyer will have to pay a developmental levy. We are also introducing a new project at Kobape, Abeokuta that will be named Preston Park Estate, at a cheaper rate also. Reacting to the issue of land grabbers in the country, Sekoni said it is a menace faced by many construction companies in Lagos compared to other states imploring the government to do something about it before it becomes an uncontrollable menace. He further reiterated the opportunities in investing in Epe especially now that the Lagos government has commissioned the Dangote’s $2.5 billion refinery project adding “we have a lot of properties at La Champagne Tropical Resort, Ibeju Lekki that have been sold years back and people are now enjoying the benefits of the development in the area.”