Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Reformatory Institutions and member representing Ezza North/Ishielu federal constituency, Ebonyi State, Hon. Anayo Edwin Nwonu, has vowed to declare a state of emergency on job creation, education, health, social investment and security immediately if elected the governor in 2023 Nwonu, a two-term lawmaker is the third member of the National Assembly to declare for the governorship position in the state under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He made his intentions known while addressing thousands of his supporters in Abakaliki during his formal declaration to contest the 2023 governorship election in the state. According to Nwonu, who alleged that there was insecurity in the state with communal crises which him has led to the loss of many lives with properties worth billions of naira destroyed. Nwonu further alleged that many schools and hospitals are not working in the state and promised to recruit qualified staff across the schools and health institutions to bridge the gap between the rich and the poor when elected. “There is no reason why civil servants should not enjoy living salary and regular promotion and why our retirees should not receive their pensions and gratuities as at when due. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “There is no reason why there should be no employment to fill existing vacancies in the state civil service when there are many unemployed Ebonyians roaming the streets. “There is no reason why lecturers should be denied their legitimate entitlements or health workers not paid what is professionally due to them. “I am aware of the harsh taxation in Ebonyi State. I am also aware of the agony and suffering confronting many of those displaced by the relocation of Abakpa market and demolition of the building material market at Spera-in Deo. “I am fully aware too that many schools and hospitals are not functioning and that there is an urgent need for qualified staff in our schools and health institutions. “I know that many of our brothers and children are not in school because their parents could not afford to pay their school fees and they resort to street hawking to make ends meet. “I know that there is hunger in our state. I know that many families go to bed without food. I am aware of the insecurity in our State and the attendant communal crises,” he said.