Storm has wreaked severe havoc on public and private properties in Piwoyi, a community off the Yar’ Adua expressway on the Airport road in Abuja. Roofs of private homes, stalls and primary school were blown off in the storm and in some cases, walls of these properties were destroyed. Affected residents of the community had different stories to tell of their experiences. Abdullahi told the Tribune Online that the roof of his shop caved in, to the storm and the rain that followed destroyed his goods. The trader sells provisions and foods like rice, garri etc. Although he could not ascertain the level of loss he said he suffered serious loss. Another victim, Sandra Uche, who had a makeshift shop for sales of building materials said “the storm has drawn us back. We would bear another cost of repairs. Fixing of the roof and other damaged parts of the shop. They suffered various losses during the Thursday storm that destroyed many houses in various parts of the city. Tribune correspondent noted roof of the LEA Primary School in Piwoyi was also affected. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Storm wreaks havoc  Storm wreaks havoc Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Storm wreaks havoc  Storm wreaks havoc How Adetunji Made over N20million in 2021 from Football Trading. Click Here to Join his team