The female student of Chrisland Schools, Lagos State, at the centre of alleged sexual misconduct with her classmate while on a trip to Dubai, UAE, has apologised. The girl has also deleted all her videos on her account on a social media app, Likee. In her post on Sunday, April 24, on Likee App, she stated: “I made a mistake, now I’m living with the consequences. I regret it, I really do. And I’m sorry.” The account has over 12,400 fans. It was gathered that the girl had been operating the page for three years before the incident at the Dubai competition happened. She also told her followers that she would be going off social media in order for her to enable her fully recover.  According to her: “We should not regret mistakes, we must learn from them. “Don’t let your past dictate who you are, but let it be a lesson that strengthens the person you’ll become.” Recall that the girl began to make headlines after her mother came out to say that the girl was raped and accused Chrisland Schools of conducting a pregnancy test on her without parental consent. Chrisland Schools has however denied the mother’s allegations. The Lagos State Government had ordered the closure of the school before reopening it last weekend. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…