In the last few weeks, the news of a popular gospel artist who was claimed to have died due to domestic violence went viral on social media  May her soul find rest. One major thing that caught my attention was the issue of money around the road to her death. As your wealth columnist and advisor, I have put together a few red flags for those who are in any form of relationship (married or single) to take note of. Please note that I am not a relationship expert, I only speak based on my experience in the Wealth, Women, and Will space.  When driving down a highway and you come across a traffic light, you see three colours: Green, Yellow, and Red. Green says drive on. Yellow says get ready to drive on. Red says stop. In a situation where you see RED and you still proceed to drive on; you surely know that you are at risk of a fatal accident. I could only pick out a few signs you should never ignore. Endeavour to take note of these red flags and make the necessary decision that you need to.  Is this situation a temporary setback or a persistent one? If he/she is simply transitioning from one financial pitfall to another, then that’s okay but if he is doing this constantly and expecting you to bail him out every time, you need to rethink things and consider making the right decision for yourself. I am not a relationship expert, but when you are in a relationship with someone that is constantly asking you for a raise, ‘urgent 2k’ here and there, no matter how small, you should be wary and you need to check things out yourself.  You will say too much money is exactly what you seek in a relationship. And your question is why would an abundance of money be an issue. The truth is wealth comes with its own set of woes and most often with its own form of vice, behavioural issues, and financial carelessness. This may lead you to an unprecedented situation that money will not be able to solve. So if this is the case, you need to check your partner’s integrity and ethics, a popular story once said to watch how your partner treats a waiter at a restaurant and not how he treats you when he takes you to a restaurant.  You should take into account the life stage of your partner compared to yours before you make that call to date or marry. If he/she is at the start of a career, such a partner may be short of money and may not be able to take on the financial responsibility of another person. Or if your partner is one that is just starting up a business and has invested all his savings and other sources of income into the business; you should be aware of this and know if this relationship is one that you are able to take on. Either you want to help out with your own income and you should know the timeline. Not forgetting that business has its own issues and when issues show up, your partner should be willing to get another source of income to beef up your current situation. For those whose partner is still studying without any means of livelihood. This means income is only coming from one source. This could drain any relationship and as such each party should decide on what they need to do for the sake of their sanity and stability.  Does he/she borrow money and forget to payback? Is your partner an impulse buyer?; buying expensive things on a whim, without checking his/her account balance? Is your partner a consistent user of credit cards? Do not take these issues lightly because they can blow up in the future if care is not taken. Find a way to resolve the problem now if you think these issues are beyond repair. Don’t try to patch up things, partners who are financially irresponsible have been known to be irresponsible in other things.  Silence on issues of money should also serve as a warning. If your partner is always evasive about money matters or routine financial matters whenever you try to initiate such a conversation, know that this issue may be deeper than it seems. Or your partner shies away from making financial plans for decisions that concern both of you.  Does he/she live his/her life on loans while you, cannot even stand the thought of debt? Does he/she plan towards a purchase while you happen to be the spur-of-the-moment spender? Is he/she a risk-taking investor but you can’t think beyond savings deposits? You need to reconcile these differences while you are still dating or be ready for financial clashes later on.  Both of you need to communicate clearly about breaking this habit and work on a concrete plan on how to pay off the current one. This is mostly a strong habit among people who have regular high-paying jobs. They live in the illusion that their monthly paycheck can pay off this loan regularly. So they tend to live from one pay-check to another pay-check, with no room to invest wisely in anything or have any disposable funds to save up. Do not assume the other person knows what to do. Communicate clearly about these things and take necessary action to avoid future problems. Seek help from relationship experts for relationship issues and seek financial help from financial advisors. Feel free to reach out to me on issues within my turf as I have clearly stated in this column. Be wise. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “If you are a private sector, you’re producing something, certainly, you need to know the population of an area if you want to create a market there. “So, census data is very crucial, very important because the data we’ve been using are just projections, estimation and are sort of obsolete. We need the actual census data to use for our planning.“ Also speaking, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, said the Council of State approved 159 out of 162 applications presented for consideration for the prerogative of mercy for convicts and inmates in correctional centres. According to sources close to the meeting, among the applications rejected was that of former Managing Director of defunct Bank PHB, Francis Atuche, who was sentenced to 120 years for stealing over N25 billion. He was said to have applied for pardon due to a life-threatening illness he is battling with. The second person who had his application rejected was convicted for forgery and sentenced to 14 years out of which he has so far done one year and six months in prison. The third person was convicted for obtaining money by false pretence and sentenced to seven years in prison. The Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru, on his part disclosed that Buhari will meet security chiefs on Tuesday next week over the worsening security situation following recommendations and comments by the Council of State. In his contribution, the Minister of Special Duties, George Akume, said the Council approved the conferment of the National Honours Award on 434 Nigerians who have distinguished themselves in their various field of endeavours. At the meeting, members observed a minute silence in honour of the former head of Interim government Ernest Shonekan who died on January 11, 2022. Apart from Buhari, the meeting was attended by former leaders including Generals Yakubu Gowon and Abdulsalami Abubakar and Dr Goodluck Jonathan. Membership of the Council includes; the President, Vice President, past presidents, Senate President, House of Representatives Speaker Chief Justice of Nigeria, serving and past; Attorney General of the Federation, all State Governors and the Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT). How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs FG may conduct census April 2023 Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa FG may conduct census April 2023