The family of the sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, has described the demise of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, as sad, describing him as a unifier and a progressive. In a statement by Dr Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosumu on Saturday, the family said the news came as a shock. According to the statement: “The news of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III joining his ancestors has come as a shock to us. He was a great Oba who brought respectability to the stool bequeathed to him by his fathers. Oba Adeyemi used the entire 52 years he spent on the throne of Oyo building bridges of friendship across all divides. He was a unifier in words and in deed. He was a progressive and a philosopher king. He worked so hard to mould his ancient kingdom into a modern town and was always available to speak for the people when occasion demanded. Everyone who ever interacted with him knew his worth as a great repository of history, culture and tradition of his people. Oyo town has lost a father and a king; Yorubaland has lost a leader and Nigeria has lost a patriot and a nationalist. We pray for the repose of his soul while we commiserate with his family, the government and people of Oyo State on this monumental loss. God Almighty will look after all he left behind.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…