Do you have traumas in your past? Maybe a school bullying incident? Maybe you have experienced a sexual assault, rape, or even been abused. It can be a tough experience to deal with alone. As a victim of sexual assault, Title IX advisor in Florida and advocates could help you. If you find yourself in this fix, you should know how to seek out the best advisor for your needs. If you’re a college student and you’ve been sexually assaulted, you probably have many questions. Navigating the reporting process can be confusing, but we’re here to help. We’ve compiled our top five tips to help make sure you get the help you need: If you feel comfortable filing an official report, that’s great! But if any barriers or fears are holding you back, don’t worry—you can talk to someone in your Title IX office without giving them your name or filing an official report.  You can talk to an advisor before you decide whether to report. It’s important for you to feel supported as you navigate your decision-making process regarding reporting what happened to you. Your Title IX office will offer support and guidance no matter what decision you make about reporting—allowing yourself that space to make the right choice for your situation is important! If someone from another college perpetrated the sexual assault, the Title IX office of that school should also be contacted, and they will open up a case against the perpetrator on your behalf. You do not need to handle this situation yourself—your Title IX office will How to Approach an Advisor Ø  Be polite Ø  Be clear about what happened. Ø  Be patient; if they don’t help, ask someone else. Ø  Remember that it’s their job to step in and help you when you’ve been accused of sexual assault or harassment—they can’t do that if you don’t tell them about it. How To Know If You Need Title IX Office Investigation If you’re not sure whether you need one, consider these five signs that you should probably get somebody to represent you: Conclusion Title IX advisors can be beneficial when navigating college, especially if you’re unsure of what actions to take after your rights are violated. Every school has a Title IX Office or something similar that handles student problems like this in one way or another. You should not suffer in silence, and you should certainly not accept harassment at work or school. If nothing else, university services that are designated to help students like you should be able to offer some insight into how to best handle these situations.