Suspected herdsmen, on Saturday, attacked a 77- year old farmer, Benjamin Babatunde on his farm in the agrarian community of Ikakumo Akoko, in Akoko North-East Local Government Area of Ondo State. The farmer was reportedly attacked by the hoodlums while working on his farm and was seriously macheted while the herdsmen left him in his pool of blood. It was gathered that the suspected herdsmen numbering about five invaded the farm and met the septuagenarian on his farm, demanding money while the old man said he was without money on the farm.   The hoodlums ransacked the farmer’s pocket and discovered he was without money and started to hit him with sticks and cutlasses, leaving him in his pool of blood. According to a source, the suspected herdsmen left the farmer on his farm after believing that he was dead but the old man managed to crawl to the village and was rushed to the hospital. The source recalled that a similar incident happened in the area some few weeks ago, saying a cashew farmer was macheted on his farm by the suspected herdsmen. Confirming the development,  the Area Commander, Assistant Commissioner of Police,  Muri Agbola, said detectives from the command have swung into action to arrest the suspected criminals, saying the investigation has begun to unravel and arrest those behind the attack. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Suspected herdsmen attack farmer in Ondo Suspected herdsmen attack farmer in Ondo