CONTINUED FROM LAST WEEK We have been looking at the issue of sensitivity. We saw three ways to being sensitive. 2) Be humane – let people be accountable for their actions but give allowance for forgiveness.  3) Praise publicly but rebuke privately. Today we continue. 4) Confidentiality. There is no way we can be sensitive if we do not keep confidence. “Be honest now, can you keep a secret? When privileged information passes through one of the gates of your senses, does it remain within the walls of your mind, or is it only a matter of time before a leak occurs? Do you respect a person’s trust or ignore it, either instantly or ultimately? The longer I live, the more I realize the scarcity of people who can be fully trusted with confidential information. And the longer I live, the more I value those rare souls who fall into that category! As a matter of fact, if I were asked to list the essential characteristics that mark a person of integrity and trust, the ability to maintain confidences would rank very near the top. I suggest we establish four practical ground rules: Whatever you’re told in confidence, do not repeat. Whenever you’re tempted to tell a secret, do not yield. Whomever you’re talking about, do not gossip. However you’re prone to disagree, do not slander. Be honest now, can you keep a secret? Prove it. A confidence kept gives others confidence in you.” Charles Swindoll “Confidentiality is a virtue of the loyal, just as loyalty is the virtue of faithfulness.” Edwin Louis Cole 5)          Active listening and effective communication. “You see pain with your eyes, but you sympathize with your ears. Sometimes the greatest way to serve someone is just by listening. Behind every need is a story.” Rick Warren Listening is a skill that will help us to be sensitive to people. “Sometimes all a person wants is an empathetic ear; all he or she needs is to talk it out. Just offering a listening ear and an understanding heart for his or her suffering can be a big comfort.” Roy T. Bennett To be sensitive we need to be attentive, available to listen and showing care. “Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.” Leo Buscaglia  CONCLUDED For enquiries and comments please send email to charismokola @yahoo.com