A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, Armstrong ‘Tope Akintunde has said that it is becoming clearer by the day that the second term ambition of Abiodun will be a walkover. Armstrong hinged his stance on what he described as the various giant strides of Abiodun in the road and infrastructural development, education, agric, housing, health, employment creation among others. Speaking in Iperu-Remo just after Dapo Abiodun Mandate disclosed the raising of the sum of N50 million to purchase the needed forms for the second term bid of the Ogun governor, Armstrong said it had become expedient to continue on the path of unprecedented development of the state beyond 2023. Armstrong added that the Dapo Abiodun Continuity Agenda (DACA) will leave no stone unturned to mobilise at least 10,000 votes for the governor in each of the 20 local governments of the state. Armstrong said: “Gov Dapo Abiodun of our dear state has no doubt been exceptional with governance in the state. “The developmental projects have been very huge across the state and just like scholarship is given to exceptionally brilliant students, some progressives across Remo land have also contributed the sum of N50M to buy the nomination form for the governor.  “It’s the least we all can do to ensure that the unprecedented development across the state continues beyond 2023. “In fact, those who want to contest against the governor are losers already because you just don’t disband a performing team. Really, it’s becoming clearer every day that Gov Abiodun’s second term is already a walkover.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Abiodun’s emergence for second term will be a walkover ― APC chieftain Abiodun’s emergence for second term will be a walkover ― APC chieftain