A former presidential aspirant in the 1993 election and candidate of the Accord party for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, Chief Reuben Famuyibo tells ‘YOMI AYELESO his chances of winning the poll, plans for the state and other sundry issues in the polity  The Ekiti State governorship election is just about 60 days away and as the candidate of the Accord party, what are your chances? At the initial stage, I thought I was going to be contesting under APC, but you know what happened. I can tell you that my chances are very bright in Accord knowing full well that everybody hates APC and PDP and the talk of the town is that people need a neutral person, someone who has not been in government before and the name is Reuben Famuyibo. They consider that other candidates from the APC, PDP and SDP have all tasted government and people will ask about what they did while in government. I have gone round the 177 wards in Ekiti State four times and now I am going round 2,700 units which we have started. Mine is not noise-speaking. I go directly to people that are going to vote, I don’t need to carry Okada riders to shout about. My name is Ekiti, Ekiti is my name, there is no household in Ekiti that doesn’t know Famuyibo; not only the name, I have touched lives. I was in Ido-Osi a few weeks, somebody saw the campaign train and came and I asked them to give him a minute to talk. Many even thought he was a spy. The person said people should vote for me because I gave him scholarship in 1995, in bigger Ondo State; he said he won’t be where he is if not for the symbolic gesture. The guy volunteered a vehicle for us that it should be branded immediately and now they have brought the names of other beneficiaries and they have now formed a forum called ‘Famuyibo Beneficiaries Group,’  Are you not threatened by the popularity of the dominant parties, especially APC, PDP and lately SDP?  Ekitis are very educated. They don’t vote for political parties. They follow names. Look at Afenifere era, the decision of Baba [Abraham] Adesanya would hold water in Ekiti. Look at the era of Adekunle Ajasin, look at when they made Bamidele Olumilua. So it is not about party, but the people behind the party. There is nobody again behind APC, including PDP, they have finished themselves.  I have my people and God. They know Famuyibo as a simple person, as their own. So, I don’t need any party, people ask me what’s Accord, I told them is number one on the ballot paper and it is gaining ground. We are not stealing government money to do election. People are borrowing money, trying to sell Ekiti again. For your information, people are contributing money for me. I was even shocked when I heard some people have contributed N177, 000 for me in a ward in Ikere Local Government Area. I am running for a government that is going to touch the lives of everybody including civil servants. So, I don’t feel threatened; they are the ones that are scared of me now. I don’t have money but God, Ekiti people will show them that everything is not about money come June 18. People want change. After Niyi Adebayo left in 2003, it has been money politics in Ekiti State and people are now saying, they want a change. The civil servants and teachers are clamoring for a change, go to the streets you will know everything. But, I learnt that they are planning to rig. But if they do, people will attack them and defend their votes and mandate. I am preaching to our people and appealing to all security agencies and INEC to shun rigging because it will only set Ekiti on fire. We are aware that APC and its cohorts are masterminding how to buy votes. They are not campaigning, but masterminding violence. People have declared in clear terms that this election is going to be a revolution to salvage the little left behind in Ekiti state.  How will you describe the state under the APC government in the last three and half years and what will you be doing differently if elected as governor? Though, I went on political sabbatical and relying on what I was told but now I am at home. I have seen indeed that Ekiti is the poorest of all states in the country. We have unemployed graduates everywhere. Don’t blame them when they ask money from politicians. They don’t have what they are doing. Many are Okada riders. How can you have a government that you can’t point to a single industry and all of them are acquiring properties across the country? In Ekiti State, cottage industries cannot cost more than 100,000 dollars. They are leaving us behind in abject poverty, no single development. Teachers are not being paid; graduates are lamenting; pensioners are in pain. I am coming to industrialise the state and be friendly with the workers. They will earn 13th month salary. The money they give to their girlfriends in December can pay for 13th month salary. Why can’t you make people happy? Ekiti is in a hurry to develop and I will make sure industrialisation takes place. All over the world, certificate is worthless because when you have the basic education, you will be able to be productive, not about parading certificates. Look at this singer, David Adeleke [Davido]. He is about the richest in the music industry. We must teach people skills from the elementary school days. Also, agriculture will be a priority and I must add that human capital development is lacking in Ekiti.  As an elder statesman and one of the founding fathers of Ekiti, what are your observations about Ekiti politics since 1999? It has been dwindling. In 1999 people like Baba Aina and Pa Ayo Fasanmi had the [Chief Obafemi] Awolowo training and they brought politics through the defunct AD and when AD was rubbished, different characters started coming. It has become degenerate; nobody is looking at track records and idea of progressiveness because money bags are dominating now. In the past when we started politics, we were asked to stay outside in the cocoa house in the bigger Ondo State, no matter your billions. In those days, I will carry Alhaji Adeyemo and other leaders from Ekiti to Akure. I will not be able to enter the meeting. I will stay outside. The leaders will be deliberating inside. But today what do you have? You will see cocaine pushers at the high table during meetings. I am sorry for politicians in the South-West and the country. It is unfortunate we are having this crop of leaders in our society today, but I can tell you that we will resist it in Ekiti come June 18.  What do you expect the electorate to be looking at in the candidates as they prepare to elect a new governor for the state? Do you know that as I am talking to you, none of the other candidates has a manifesto?  I started distributing my manifesto over a year ago. I am prepared for the election. Not that my oga’s wife put me there, Oga so pe (the boss says). That era should not rear its ugly head again. Let the people assess the governorship candidates and see the best with ideas to develop Ekiti State. Like I told some people, I am not like those ones that want to go to the government house if elected  because I want to feel the people. I have no policemen, Ekiti people are the ones guiding me. In my own government, if you are from Ikere, Ogotun, Igbara-Odo, go there, be coming from there to the office. Through that, you will be able to know the problem of your people.  What are your expectations from INEC? I have spoken to some people in INEC and when politicians want to make or mar an election, it is through INEC. So, from the grapevine, we are hearing that some people are planted there by a  governor. But I don’t want to mention names because I am a lawyer. INEC will be told in the language they understand. We should do a free and fair election. Anything short of that they will set Ekiti on fire which will be unprecedented and make the 1983 episode a child’s play.  INEC should be unbiased and neutral. Most people don’t have more information about the election, but people in government are already boasting around that they know everything to manipulate the election because they have a national commissioner there giving them tips. Already, a petition is being written against the individual allegedly planted by the governor. 