THE Muslim community in Iseyin, Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State, has commended the leadership of the League of Imams and Alfas in the town for effecting the repositioning of the mosque’s qibla (the direction of Mecca that Muslims must face when praying), which it claimed had been wrongly positioned for more than 60 years. According to some congregants who worshipped at the Oja-Oba Central Mosque, Iseyin, Friday last week, this is an indication of better things to come, as praying at the wrong side of the qibla was against the guidance of Prophet Muhammad. The Chief Imam of Iseyinland, Imam Abdul-Hakeem Babatunde Olajori, described the development as a big improvement for the Muslim community and Iseyin in general. Olajori noted that the relocation of the mosque in the 15th century and its eventual return to its original location about 60 years ago caused the structural defect in the position of the qibla.  He said: “This development is very important in my life as God has used me to bring about a positive change to the Iseyin Central Mosque. In the 15th century, the mosque was relocated and later brought back to this particular location. Modernisation came and the mosque was rebuilt with bricks and was already in use when our fathers discovered a defect in the direction of the qibla. “This defect had been noticed more than 50 years ago but recently, the Muslim community held a meeting on this with the League of Imams and Alfas in Iseyin, where it was unanimously agreed that there should be a bend towards the qibla, which we have put into effect today, Friday, the seventh day of Ramadan, which is equivalent to the eighth day of the English calendar month of April 2022. “The grave of our father, Imam Alalukimba, which was there and without which we would not have been able to do this, has been relocated to a proper place. Prophet Muhammad warned that we should not face a burial ground or grave while praying, so the relocation of the grave was also a decision that was unanimously arrived at by the Muslim community, the family of the late Imam Alalukimba and the representatives of Ijemba community.” Imam Olajori expressed the hope that the correction made on the qibla position would change the minds of many worshippers who had stopped coming to the mosque. Speaking with newsmen after the Friday Jumat prayer, a businessman and indigene of Iseyin, Alhaji Isiak Folorunsho, said he was happy this change was effected without any rancour among the people. He said he was proud that the Muslim community was unanimous in taking the decision to bring about positive changes in the structure of the historical worship place. “Many of us were born meeting this structure like this and many might not know about the defect. We are happy that this correction has been done. “It will attract many other young ones that saw the defect as an aberration and would therefore not want to worship here. It is a welcome development,” he added.