Billionaire business mogul and owner of Fortune University, Dr. Jimoh Ibrahim, has debunked a fake Facebook account opened by some unscrupulous persons in his name to defraud Nigerians. Ibrahim, also a legal practitioner, made this declaration on Saturday in a statement he personally signed, saying he was equally surprised like many of his associates, followers and fans that such Facebook page exists. The page advertised a phony link which projected an investment profile with a fake note credited to Jimoh Ibrahim, and written thus: “I am sharing this because I’ve also received hundreds of emails from people thanking me for sharing this secret. “The scam link is ‘https://fingering. xyz/Jimoh Ibrahim_23.122021′” Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim, whose chains of business cut across oil and gas, hospitality, Insurance and many more, said emphatically that the face book page doesn’t belong to him, stressing that some smart Alecs went to hoist the page on the social media with the hope of using his name and face to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. The Araba of Ikale land called the scammers to desist from using his name in their shady social media deals, warning that the long arms of the law would catch up with them in no time. The business mogul appealed to the public not be brow beaten by whatever mouth watering investment package on the fake Facebook page, maintaining that it doesn’t have anything to do with him as a person or his chains of businesses both in Nigeria and overseas. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.…