In its drive to ensure sustainable cooperation with relevant authorities for a safer airspace in Nigeria, Accident Investigation Bureau, Nigeria (AIB-N), has reiterated its commitment to maintain partnership and institutional collaboration with the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). The Commissioner/Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau, Mr Akin Olateru, who made this known while receiving the newly appointed Abuja Military Airport Commandant, Group Captain B. A. Usman at the Bureau’s head office in Abuja, stated that the NAF had the Bureau’s full support and cooperation in ensuring a safer airspace in Nigeria. AIB-N, according to Olateru, as a government agency, had a strong relationship with the NAF, which was sealed with a pact between the two government establishments. “AIB-N cannot do it alone. A strong collaboration must exist among relevant agencies in order to ensure the continuous safety of the Nigerian airspace,” the Commissioner said. While soliciting the Bureau’s support, Group Captain Usman disclosed that his team was seeking ways to consolidate the existing synergy between the agencies to ensure maximum safety and security within and outside the airports’ environment. The Commandant further urged the Bureau not to hesitate to call NAF in times of distress, assuring the Bureau of its readiness for rapid response at all times. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, IFEDAYO OGUNYEMI, in this report, unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!