Ahead of the governorship primaries of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday in Ekiti State, a former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni has advised delegates who will be voting at the primary to reject tyranny and vote to preserve the future of their children. The governorship aspirant who is seeking to return to power said the delegates should display the true identity of Ekiti by putting an end to crude politics in the state, saying, “this is the time for you to show that we, the Ekiti people, are from the historical stock of ancestors who will never bend to tyranny.” In a statement he signed and addressed to the delegates, Oni said, “To our esteemed delegates, this is the time to demonstrate the Ekiti spirit of honour and defend our Omoluabi heritage as you cast your decisive vote. This is the vote to earn you respect and give Ekiti a name that will make our children and children’s children proud forever. “Some people have said crude power and money will always decide our politics. They think they can continue to lord it over us forever. But we have come to say enough is enough with our votes. “This is the vote that we must cast to defend the Ekiti dignity. This is the vote of history. This is the vote that will make our people very proud of us.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!