National President of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Alhaji Debo Ahmed has commiserated with members of his Association over the death of Alhaji Danladi Pasali. Pasali, a petroleum marketer and the Coordinator, President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), died last Tuesday after a protracted illness. Alhaji Ahmed in a condolence message he personally signed and issued to newsmen described the late Pasali as a very strong member of the Association. The statement read in part: “The National President of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Alhaji Debo Ahmed commiserate with the IPMAN family nationwide on the demise of one of its very strong member, *Alhaji Danladi Pasali,* who passed away on Tuesday, 18th January 2022. “I pray Allah to forgive him and give him Aljannah Firdaus. “May Allah grant the family he left behind the strength to bear the loss. “The IPMAN family will miss him greatly. ” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… IPMAN President, Ahmed, commiserates with members  IPMAN President, Ahmed, commiserates with members  IPMAN President, Ahmed, commiserates with members  IPMAN President, Ahmed, commiserates with members Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!