It is no longer news that the Kaduna State government has migrated to four working days a week. With the new policy, civil servants are expected to work from Monday to Thursday as a way of boosting productivity, improving work-life balance and enabling workers to have more time for their families, rest and agricultural activities.  I think these are good reasons enough to warrant the adoption of the policy. Besides, in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is reported that some advanced countries adopted the four working days policy and it has worked perfectly for them. However, it is not wrong for developed countries with strong institutions and effective workforce to migrate to such policy. Those countries have adequate trained and experienced manpower. By reducing the working day, nothing will change. In the case of Kaduna, which is the first state in the country to adopt the policy, it seems to have come at a wrong time. With the extension of the policy from ministries to the education sector, public schools can only open for four days; one is forced to disagree entirely with the state government’s action. The governor must have known that schools operate using syllabus and curriculum developed by National Educational Research and Development council (NERDC). This syllabus is used by all schools including the private schools. If our poorly funded public schools are to continue with the four working days policy, it means their counterpart in the private sector and others states will move far ahead of them. This is sad development. My concern about the policy is that, unless it is quickly reversed, the education sector will suffer greatly and this will have a multiplier effect.  Ibrahim Mustapha Pambegua, Kaduna State. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!