A notorious bandit and one of the most wanted bandit kingpins, Bello Turji, has reportedly released 52 kidnapped victims. The release of the victims might not be unconnected with the recent onslaught carried out in Zamfara and Sokoto forests which resulted in the death of the two notorious bandits and scores of other bandits. A source in Shinkafi town who gave his name as Abdullahi Shinkaf revealed that Turji was willing to lay down arms and be a peaceful citizen. “For the past three weeks, we have been living in peace; no attacks from the bandits,” he stressed. Locals in Shinkafi town also confirmed that the 52 victims who regained freedom on Monday had been in a den under the control of Turji for long. It was gathered that the latest development was made possible as a result of the dialogue that took place between the kingpin and local authorities in Zamfara State. “Turji is the mastermind of killings and kidnappings in Shinkafi, Sabon Birni, Isah in Zamfara and Sokoto States. He wrote to Shinkafi Emirate Council last year that he was ready to embrace peace and stop banditry. “The 52 men and women are currently being moved from the forest to an agreed spot where they will be taken to Shinkafi town. “Busses were prepared for the journey to Maberiya, 5km east of Shinkafi town to convey them,” a local said. As of the time of filing the report, the police state command is yet to issue a statement regarding the peace development. Recall, the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, said at the weekend that with the current onslaught going on in Sokoto and Zamfara forests, the end of Bello Turji is very near.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…  Bandits leader Turji releases 52 victims in Zamfara, to embrace peace | Bandits leader Turji releases 52 victims in Zamfara, to embrace peace |Bandits leader Turji releases 52 victims in Zamfara, to embrace peace