The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, on Wednesday, expressed outrage over the purchase of two bulletproof Lexus 670 LXE SUVs with six doors valued at N1.5billion by the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, for his personal comfort and self-aggrandisement, despite the inability of his government to pay workers salaries in the state. The PDP outcry was contained in a statement issued and signed by the Publicity Secretary of the party, Kennedy Peretei, who described the latest purchase by the governor as executive recklessness and insensitivity to the plight of the people, saying it is beyond any rational thinking. Peretei who condemned the frequent procurement of official vehicles by the governor on yearly basis said the open display of affluence by governor Akeredolu is a direct affront on the sensibility of the people of the state, saying the same governor that refused to buy even one bag of rice for his APC party supporters during Christmas, had as much as N1.5b to buy cars for his personal comfort. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Peretei said: “It is on record that each time the Governor procures official vehicles, he would buy two. One for himself and the other for his wife. These latest wonders on wheels were the third batch of vehicles bought by the Governor since he assumed office about five years ago. “It means, on average, two vehicles every two years. As we speak, the number of vehicles in the Governor’s fleet (most of which are armoured) are about fifteen. This level of executive recklessness and insensitivity to the plight of the people is beyond any rational thinking. “Whichever way, the truth is that Ondo State deserves something better than they are being served at the moment. We have witnessed prosperity in Ondo State under the PDP administration. We experienced decent life under the PDP compared to the present lack that is the order of the day. “The same Governor that refused to buy even one bag of rice for his APC party supporters during Christmas, had as much as N1.5b Naira to buy cars for his personal comfort” The PDP who drew the attention of the governor to the hunger and suffering and hunger in the land, queried the rationale behind the procurement of the vehicles, describing it as a direct affront on the sensibility of the people Peretei said in the statement, “Is Mr Governor aware that, many students have dropped out of schools because their parents were unable to afford the astronomical fees of tertiary institutions, charged by the Akeredolu led APC government? “Is Mr Governor aware that, workers of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic are being owed eleven months salary? Is Mr Governor aware that, most of the workers in Ondo State who executed personal capital projects like building of houses and buying of cars using Cooperatives and loans are no longer able to do so since he started the percentage payment of salaries? “Is Mr Governor aware that Ondo State workers are no longer creditworthy? So much so that, those who do not have houses of their own are rejected by landlords if they seek accommodation? “Is Mr Governor aware that, market men and women who used to get soft loans from the Ondo State Micro Credit Agency have vacated their stalls in the neighbourhood markets because such loans no longer exist? “Is Mr Governor aware that, many families have lost loved ones because they could not afford medicare? Is Mr Governor aware that, many of the artisans are closing shops or refusing to go to their workshops due to outright lack of patronage or poor patronage? “How can a Governor presiding over such unimaginable misery have the presence of mind to procure armoured vehicles valued at such an outrageous amount from taxpayers’ funds? “Even governors of states with enormous resources do not use such cars. Not even Governors in Bandits and Boko Haram infested enclaves buy these kinds of cars. Did Akeredolu purchase these vehicles for security reasons or to further prove the point that nothing will happen, no matter how he takes the people for granted?” Attempts to speak with the spokesman of the state government, Donald Ojogo, were not successful as his mobile phone could not be reached However, a top government official said there should not be noise over the procurement of vehicles for the state govenor, saying it is not out of place for the governor to purchase vehicles for his official use and that of his wife. He urged the opposition party to engage themselves with more issues that would deepen democracy and the development of the state and not non-issues. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!