The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has commenced a total digital manifest management regime for all vessels calling at all Nigerian ports. The physical transactions concerning Sailing Certificates and cargo manifest processing are being phased out completely as stakeholders are encouraged to fully embrace the Agency’s initiative by visiting the NIMASA portal. The Director General of the Agency, Dr. Bashir Jamoh said that the automation is aimed at further reducing human interaction, improving efficiency and blocking revenue leakages. According to him, “In line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order on Ease of Doing Business, we are committed to improving turnaround time of vessels, reduction of human interface in majority of our transactions with our stakeholders and this is in our bid to ensure transparency and professionalism that the sector requires to grow. “We have improved our operational relationship with our sister agencies, as we speak, we have made tremendous progress in our determination to convey sailing clearance for vessels to the NPA electronically. We also receive and process manifests electronically. This has improved efficiency leading to improvement in the turn-around-time of vessels calling at the nation’s ports. “Right now we have ensured that the process of submitting and processing manifests is reduced from 72 hours to five hours for VLCCs (Very Large Crude Carriers) and larger container vessels whereas it would only take two hours or less for smaller vessels. You would agree with me that these are marked improvements and it is still work in progress,” Jamoh said. The NIMASA DG noted that the benefits that would be derived from the total digitalisation of all the Agency’s processes expected to be completed by 2022 would be enormous not just for the stakeholders, but for the country at large, including helping to improve balance of trade, and commercial shipping activities in Nigeria.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state.