The Senior Special Assistant (Media & Publicity), Garba Shehu, is now following the Tinubu media support group on Twitter. The presidential spokesman, who joined the microblogging site in April 2015, follows 365 other Twitter users, and himself, has over 1.2 million followers. The Tinubu Media Support Group (TMS) with the handle @TinubuMediaS was opened this month following the former Lagos state governor, Bola Tinubu’s public declaration to contest for the presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). The profile of the group describes it as “Volunteer Media Support, BAT Fans, Promoters of BAT’23 project.” So far, the group follows 455 Twitter users and it is being followed by 954 users including the presidential spokesman. President Muhammadu Buhari has refrained from disclosing his choice of a successor, saying recently that he would rather keep it to himself to prevent the individual from being “eliminated.” When pressed in a recent television interview on whether he has any favourite in the APC, the president had responded: “No. I wouldn’t because he may be eliminated if I mention it. I better keep it secret.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Buhari’s spokesman following Tinubu media support group on Twitter  Buhari’s spokesman following Tinubu media support group on Twitter  Buhari’s spokesman following Tinubu media support group on Twitter  Buhari’s spokesman following Tinubu media support group on Twitter. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!