The Senate has vowed to unearth circumstances surrounding alleged failure by the Bureau of Public Enterprises, BPE to remit into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the sum of $679.4 million, being amount realised from the concession of various ports granted to 23 companies under Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) for ten years. The Senate Committee on Public Accounts chaired by Senator Mathew Urhoghide’s investigation was sequel to the query issued by the Auditor General in its report which alleged that there was evidence that was no evidence to show that $679 million was collected as at when due and remitted to Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Auditor General’s Office further disclosed in its report that it opened correspondence with the BPE but “no response has been received from the Bureau.” The query read in part: “Twenty-three (23) companies were granted concessional rent of various Ports under Nigerian Ports Authority for ten years and above with associated yearly rent of $679,403,172.00 (Six hundred and seventy-nine million, four hundred and three thousand one hundred and seventy-two dollars) payable to NPA as at 31st December, 2016. “There is no evidence to show that the sum of $679,403,172.00 was collected as at when due and remitted to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. “This has been communicated to the Bureau vide letter with reference No. OAuGF/RESAD/05/2016/07 dated 19th April, 2018.No response has been received from the Bureau. “Unremitted funds may be misapplied by the Bureau. Also, it may lead to the diversion of funds to other uses. “The Director-General is required to show evidence that the sum of $679,403,172.00 was collected and remitted to the appropriate authority.” “This has been communicated to the Bureau vide letter with reference No. OAuGF/RESAD/05/2016/07 dated 19th April, 2018.No response has been received from the Bureau. “Unremitted funds may be misapplied by the bureau. Also, it may lead to the diversion of funds to other uses. “The Director-General is required to show evidence that the sum of $679,403,172.00 was collected and remitted to the appropriate authority.” The BPE in its written defence however maintained that the concession transactions were done in 2005 and the concession agreement executed clearly showed that BPE was only a confirming party while the primary parties to the concessions were the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA). BPE further disclosed that the responsibility for such collection rests with the NPA. “Having midwifed the concession transactions, the BPE collected some of the remittances to the NPA. “The NPA has since acknowledged the transfer made regarding the rentals received on its behalf by the Bureau. “Revenue accruing on the Ports concession have, beyond 2008, been paid directly to “Landlord”, NPA and not the BPE as the OAuGF report appears to allege. “We are therefore unaware of the $679.4 million.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…