Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, has said that his interest in the Presidency of Nigeria would be decided by the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said the party reserved the right to assess all its aspirants and decide on who it deemed fit and as a family, he would abide by the decision. Ayade who said the party would deal with the issue as a family pointed out that as a senator he had 41 bills to his credit and in spite of the low allocation to the state, his administration built the longest carriageway in the country. Ayade said this on Thursday, in a televised morning show of Channels Television, monitored by our correspondent. “I think the party I belong to has a relationship. When people’s historical background is properly, analyzed, as a senator I have 41 bills, which was the highest in the Senate. “We have the longest one dual carriageway ever done by any government in the history of Nigeria is impossible stretching from globally. “I think the party should make a decision based on sound principle, which will be resolved as a party. We will look at the circumstance of integrity and value.” The Cross River State Governor said that one of the measures to drop the foreign exchange rate of the Naira to the Dollar would be to adopt a policy that demanded oil companies that produce 100,000 per day (PD) to own a refinery. “We have 3,000 tonnes of iron ore deposit in Nigeria. If we start harvesting and bringing value to those to tones it will replace these unnecessary subsidies we are putting into the patrol sector. “If we ask that every other company that is producing of 100,000 barrel per day (bpd) must have a modular refinery, within six to eight months which is doable because it is just $95m to out a modular refinery and stop the import of crude oil and start the export of refined petroleum products you do that, the Naira will start having strength. These are all the programs of APC, this is why I came into APC to add value. This is why as a nation, I think that we should come together and drive the process. Ayade also said the criticism of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC) was that of the modern illiterate. He explained that modern illiteracy was not of anyone that can not read or write but of a critic, who sees things only from its prism. “The problem with our country is that they carry politics beyond the boundaries of reason and logic, party and party politics and elections. I imagine should start ending as soon as elections have ended and come together as a country to drive prosperity and set up a prosperity corridor for our younger generation. “Now the 21st century illiterate is not someone who cannot read or write, a 21st century illiterate is a Critic. In the 21st century, critics have moved to value addition. So basically, PDP comment comes from the point of an illiterate 21C person, they should rather be articulating what they can do public domain adding value. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  APC to decide my presidential ambition  APC to decide my presidential ambition  APC to decide my presidential ambition  APC to decide my presidential ambition 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!