Vehicular and commercial activities in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital were on Monday disrupted as no fewer than six governorship aspirants in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) protested over the outcome of the last Saturday’s ad hoc ward congress. The congress is expected to elect three delegates in each of the 177 wards ahead of the January 26 primaries. The aspirants include a former Ekiti State governor, Chief Segun Oni, Senator Biodun Olujimi, Lateef Ajijola and Yinka Akerele, while the duo of Wale Aribisala and Professor Kolapo Olusola sent representatives during the protest. They had earlier on Saturday rejected the process of the congress aimed at electing three delegates in each of the 177 wards for the January 26 primaries. The aspirants who stormed the street of Ado-Ekiti with their hordes of supporters armed with placards called on the national leadership of PDP led by Senator Ayorcha Ayu to quickly redress the alleged manipulation of the exercise to favour former Governor Ayodele Fayose’s political group. Speaking with newsmen, Senator Olujimi who was flanked by other aspirants noted that the ward congress didn’t take place in any part of the state, adding the purported result being banded around was allegedly concocted by the Fayose group. She accused the five-man panel sent by the PDP national secretariat to supervise the congress, lamenting that the exercise was shrouded in secrecy to subvert the people’s will, transparency, inclusive participation of all the aspirants. Olujimi said, “There was no ad hoc ward congress and we want absolute cancellation. What really happened was that one person hijack all the materials and went to write all the list. If you hijacked the materials and you are writing the names of the delegates, then, you will surely face the consequences. “It’s not about me. It’s about our party and future. What is important is fairness and justice. Any place where there’s no fairness and justice, peace will be eluded. So, all the peace agreement has been broken. When you broke the peace agreement, what do you expect us to do. To fold our arms? No, we won’t.” She called on the leadership of the party to swiftly intervene by allowing substantial compliance and adherence to democratic norms devoid of manipulation, warning that the development if allowed to persist would be a threat to the victory of the party in the June 18 poll. “There is a need to listen to the people of Ekiti. The party must do the needful. They must call a meeting. And the meeting must be a meeting of truth. Without that, the poll here would be very tough for our party,” she added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!