A member of the House of Representatives from Ibadan North-East /Ibadan South-East Federal Constituency, Honourable Abass Adigun Agboworin has described the death of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Adetunji as a big loss to Ibadan, Oyo State and Nigeria. In a condolence message by his media aide, Aremu Ibraheem, the federal lawmaker said Ọba Adetunji left at a time when his very rich experience was still needed, noting that he was a man of great character. Agboworin said the five-year reign of Oba Adetunji would be remembered for the remarkable progress and development brought to the largest city in West Africa. “In this part of the world, the aged are venerated for their rich fountain of experience and wisdom. In fact, every old man that dies in Africa is like a library set ablaze. “History has booked an enviable chapter for Oba Adetunji as a great defender of the Olubadan stool against the pollution of its uniqueness which remains the envy of all. “Oba Adetunji’s reign was peaceful and colourful. Ibadanland witnessed tremendous progress, expansion and development. We will miss his cognate ability to settle disputes. “Oba Adetunji was a man of great character who was not overwhelmed by affluence, but impacted positively on thousands of lives around him, “Agboworin said. While condoling the Adetunji family for the loss of their patriarch, Governor Seyi Makinde as the chief mourner, Agboworin prayed for the sweet repose of the late Oba. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 