The Ondo State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday, said the leadership of the state House of Assembly has perfected plans to hurriedly pass into law, the state Anti-corruption Bill forwarded to the assembly on December 23, 2021. This was contained in a statement signed by the party’s publicity secretary, Kennedy Peretei, who said the party supported the moves to stamp out corruption in the state, but frowned over the speedy process of the bill. According to party, there was no need for the hasty process of the bill if the intentions are genuine and transparently honest, pointing out that the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and his family are irredeemably soaked in the sea of corruption. Peretei, however, said the anti-corruption bill set to be passed by the State Assembly was designed to protect the governor and his family from being investigated. “The PDP in Ondo State chapter is in full support of institutional framework to stamp out corruption in the state, if only the intentions are genuine and transparently honest. “The powers given to the Attorney General of the state to regulate the operations of the commission, if the bill is passed, all point to a subtle legal cover to do more unthinkable damage to the treasury of the state,” it said. Reacting, Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said the opposition party lacks understanding about the bill and needed to be enlightened, saying the bill ought to have been passed over a year ago Ojogo said, “The party’s latest attack on the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration has exposed its ignorance. “Specifically, the PDP’s claim that an anti-corruption bill is set to be passed by the state assembly to allegedly protect the governor and his family from wrongdoings is not only preposterous but laughable. “It exposes the level of seriousness of a supposed opposition bereft of ideas, unwilling to obtain facts and self-cabined against information.” Ojogo explained that “the Bill for a law to establish the Ondo State Public Complaints, Financial Crime and Anti-corruption Commission and others connected thereto 2021 was deliberated upon at the level of the State Executive Council, but was stepped down for wider consultations. He added: “At the moment, the memo has not received any Exco approval, and has, therefore, not been sent to the State House of Assembly. All the same, it is one bill that shall be pursued to a logical conclusion. “For the records, the Anti-Corruption Bill, when put in place, will serve the purpose of the state, rather than the warped imagination of the grossly deficient opposition.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…