Former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, has declared that Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress must adopt direct primary to elect the governorship candidate for the 2022 poll in Ekiti State. The former Minister said it would be a fatal mistake for APC to allow an unpopular individual to be imposed on them during the January 27 primary meant to elect the candidate that would fly the party’s flag. Adeyeye also submitted that the Ekiti State chapter of the APC and the people of the state, in general, would back Tinubu’s presidential aspiration, describing him as the best man to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. The former Minister said this in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital on Tuesday while declaring his intention to vie for Ekiti governorship on the platform of APC to a mammoth crowd of supporters. Adeyeye posited that the best way to democratise the APC’s primary and make the outcome acceptable in Ekiti is by adopting direct primary so that the party can get a popular candidate to face the opposition. According to him, “APC must win this election, they must pick someone that is popular. You can see for yourselves that people are with us. In 2018, we told some arrogant people that they won’t have their way through imposition and it happened. It is obvious that only a popular candidate can win for APC in this election. “The national leaders of our great party must return this party to the people. Let the national leaders adopt direct primary to elect the candidate for the Ekiti poll if truly we want to get a popular candidate. Let us return power to the people, with popular participation, people themselves would decide the candidate in the interest of justice, equity and fair play. All the aspirants must go for direct primary. “I still believe that if the process is credible and a popular candidate is elected, we will all support the person. But if you go to your closet to bring out a candidate, that would not work. Primaries should be democratic. “What is difficult in conducting direct primary if truly you are open and popular? The party must go on the side of the people.” Adeyeye stated that Tinubu presidential ambition would bring goodness to Ekiti, especially if Ekiti people also elect him to govern the state after clinching the APC’s ticket. “Our prayer is that Asiwaju Tinubu will be President and that you will make me the governor of Ekiti State. If this should happen, Ekiti will be better for it. With Tinubu and Adeyeye, it is more goodness for Ekiti. “Your time has come. We know our governor has not been fraternising with you. He has not been making himself accessible, but if you elect me, I will dine and wine with you. With me as your governor, no room for Poverty in Ekiti again, we will work hard to end it. “Go and make up your mind and vote for me during the primary, you will not regret it,” he said. Describing Adeyeye as the best man that can secure victory for APC, a former House of Representatives member, Oyetunde Ojo, appealed to delegates to resist attempts by moneybags to buy their conscience during the primary. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari.