Sterling Bank Plc has partnered with the Nike Art Gallery to install solar panels at the gallery via the bank’s Imperium outlet as part of its commitment to a renewable energy powered Nigeria as well as the development of the nation’s tourism sector. This follows recent partnerships with the gallery to drive an appreciation as well as the investment opportunities available in the arts and tourism sectors in Nigeria. The Nike Art Gallery, owned by Chief Nike Okundaye is one of the largest of its kind in the West African sub-region with a collection of about 8,000 diverse artworks from various Nigerian artists. Group Head for Renewable Energy at Sterling Bank, Dele Faseemo, who disclosed this in a statement issued by the bank in Lagos recently, said the bank’s entire strategy is founded on the idea of improving lives by providing varied chances to its clients and prospective customers with an infusion of the Bank’s HEART strategy. The renewable energy sector is one of the five sectors of the economy that the bank is presently concentrating investments in. The other sectors are health, education, agriculture and transportation. Shina Atilola, Divisional Head for Retail and Consumer Banking at Sterling Bank added that the bank attempts to enrich lives and unlock new opportunities in Nigeria’s tourism sector through partnerships with key tourism industry players as well as other sectors where investments are being focused under its HEART’s of Sterling programme. Atilola said the partnership with Nike Art Gallery is an indication of the bank’s unwavering commitment to assisting and growing the tourism sector as well as its long-standing commitment to developing an alternative energy system for a better Nigeria. Chief Nike Okundaye has commended the bank over the gesture, stating that this installation will bring an infusion of sustainability and take the gallery into Nigeria’s energy future. Atilola further opined that the commitment to install the solar panels, which was completed in January 2022, began at the World Tourism Day organized by the bank at the gallery. Faseemo, therefore, called on Nigerians to take advantage of the green and sustainable power solutions available through Imperium and also engage the bank in tourism discussions to explore opportunities that can be beneficial to individuals, businesses and the environment. He further urged interested prospects to equally approach officers of the bank for discussions on other products of the bank or visit www.imperiumng.com. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<