The National Pension Commission (PenCom) says the industry has accumulated pension assets in excess of N13 trillion which is being invested in various aspects of the Nigerian economy. This was disclosed by the Director-General of PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, at a retreat organised on the
review of the Pension Reform Act 2014 (PRA 2014) in Abuja. According to her, the retreat aimed to identify salient issues to be reviewed in the PRA 2014 as a prelude to advancing legislative action on the Bill. “It is expected that the National Assembly would subsequently organise a public hearing in order to provide an avenue for stakeholders to formally make input into the proposed amendments,” said Mrs Dahir-Umar in a statement. She noted that the review is a corollary to some implementation challenges encountered with certain sections of the Act not long after its enactment in July 2014. This is in addition to persistent calls from stakeholders for the amendment of some sections of the Act, which resulted in several legislative initiatives through the sponsorship of Bills for amendment of the PRA 2014 by the National Assembly. Consequently, the Commission, as the regulator of the pension industry, decided to coordinate and harmonise the various efforts in order to achieve a more comprehensive and constructive exercise for the review of the PRA 2014. The PRA 2014 was enacted following a review of the initial Pension Reform Act of 2004, which introduced legal and institutional frameworks of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and established PenCom to regulate and supervise all pension matters in Nigeria. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.N13trn pension assets invested in Nigerian economy, says PenCom N13trn pension assets invested in Nigerian economy, says PenCom 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!