THE Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at Nigeria has admonished the Federal Government (FG) to see the dawn of the year 2022 as an opportunity to offer Nigerians a better deal through the adoption of corporate and all-embracing governance and maintenance of equity and justice for all. This is just as the Jama’at commended the “indomitable spirit” and resilience of Nigerians for survival in the face of daunting challenges in the socio-economic, political and technological spheres. The organisation, in a New Year message signed by its Amir (National Head), Alhaj AbdulAzeez Alatoye, observed that just like the year 2020, the year 2021 was also a challenging one for Nigerians. It also lamented that high level of poverty and unemployment remained a serious challenge to Nigerians in spite of abundance of human and material resources in the country. The statement reads in part: “The entire members of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at of Nigeria heartily rejoice with Nigerians and the government on the occasion of the new year 2022 that just started. “Just like the year 2020, the year 2021 was also a challenging one for the country, no thanks to the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, especially with the discovery of Omicron variant. “The efforts of the government and the health institutions in curtailing the pandemic are well commended. The masses are further urged to implement all COVID-19 protocols to further stop the spread of the OMICRON Variant. “The Jama’at further recognises and applauds the indomitable spirit for survival and resilience of Nigerians in the face of daunting challenges in the socio-economic, political and technological spheres. “The religion of Islam has no room for terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, ritual killing of human beings, exploitation of any kind or any act of wickedness against one another.  The government, as a matter of urgency, is urged to be more proactive towards eliminating the social vices which are now daily occurrences in the country. “The high level of poverty, unemployment and under-employment are still serious challenges to Nigerians, in spite of abundance of both human and material resources at our disposal. “It is incumbent on all levels of government to provide affordable food, healthcare facilities, shelter, security and good road network for the populace. “On the part of Nigerians, they should not lose faith in the present government and continue to support her with prayers and good deeds. They should also be alive to their civic responsibilities. “The Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama’at of Nigeria also uses this medium to admonish the Nigerian government on corporate and all-embracing governance, maintenance of equity and justice as well as fair play. “No region should be segregated or denied rightful needs. This act will no doubt bring about peaceful coexistence and progress to the country. “There should be justice for all. Leaders of all agitators should be invited for a meeting in a bid to address all contending issues in an amicable way. Government is urged to eschew nepotism, religious bigotry, among other ills. “Pointedly, as the 2023 general elections draw near, the Jama’at hereby advises the President, General Muhammad Buhari GCFR, to ensure a hitch-free election exercise at all levels. “All necessary machineries must be put in place to achieve free and fair elections. All political parties must resolve their differences internally. Politics should be seen as a game of numbers and not a do-or-die affair. “No eligible voters should be disenfranchised. Nigerians must be allowed to exercise their civic duty without any form of molestation. Electoral malpractices must be totally wiped out. The government should ensure appropriate electoral reforms are duly signed into law. “The role of religious bodies towards the attainment of our dream country cannot be overemphasised. Religious leaders must continue to preach peace and unity.  Religious centres must be holy places void of social vices and where worshippers are well enlightened on true value system. “We pray fervently for a new order and more prosperous years ahead for Nigeria.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…