Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Tuesday, formally received the expression of intention and nomination forms earlier obtained in Abuja on his behalf by some friends, political associates and well-wishers. He also seized the occasion to confirm his intention to contest for a second term in office. He attributed his decision to the quest to consolidate on his giant strides and further entrench good governance his Administration had laboured vigorously for. This is even as the Governor on Tuesday, began his strategic engagement tour of all Councils in the State. Receiving the Form at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Osogbo, Governor Oyetola expressed gratitude to the people of the State, particularly the political associates that purchased the form for him, saying, “This is a rare honour coming to me to serve my people for another term. “I thank the people that purchased the form for me for the rare commitment they displayed. I was not informed they wanted to do so. I heard the news when I was planning on how to get it. For them to have gone this far, it is an inspiration to do more, not to be deterred. “I accept without any reservation your request for me to run for another four years. I want to assure you, God willing, the best is yet to come. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The four years is about building the foundation and the next four years by the Grace of God is building on the foundation. As you all know, we were challenged by so many things, yet we did not disappoint you. The reward for hard work is more work. We will not be deterred, we will do more. “We thank you all. You are our backbones; you are behind us and there is nothing to fear. We will turn around the fortunes of this state. We want the state to be reckoned with in the comity of States “It is a question of commitment, focus, vision and choosing the right people to surround us. God has been very kind to us, it has been peace, love and harmony. Democracy is about competition. We are not afraid of competition; we are ready for it. I promise by the Grace of Almighty Allah, we are not going to disappoint you,” Oyetola added. Earlier in his remarks, the Chairman, Osun Elders Caucus called “Igbimo Agba”, Engr Sola Akinwumi, expressed confidence in the ability and capacity of Governor Oyetola to take the party to victory, saying the party leaders were resolute to work assiduously for his ambition and get him re-elected. Engr. Akinwumi, who described Oyetola as a “good and unblemished product that has no boundary,” said his tremendous achievements since he has been piloting the affairs of the State remain incontrovertible evidence that he will earn a second term. He said: “Oyetola is backed by the people that matter in Osun. He is a good product in the politics of Osun that has no boundary. He has been promised by Almighty God and it is evident that he is taking Osun to the promised land.” Similarly, the State Chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Comrade Lekan Folorunso, said the Governor deserves to be re-elected for his good works as seen and felt across sectors of the economy. Folorunso, who reassured the Governor of their unflinching support, said he and his members across the state were solidly behind him to ensure his second term and that they would do all possible within the laws to return him back to the office. “I commend Mr Governor for being solidly behind us. We own the state because of our indispensable contribution to the welfare and daily survival of the people and we are resolutely behind Mr Governor and his government. “We can assure you of undiluted and uncompromised support. You will see our weights when you begin campaigns. You have made a serious impact on the lives of the people. You have redefined the art of governance, brought succour and a smile to the faces of the masses and these will be rewarded by massive votes for your party. We are committed to your cause. “I implore your followers to be faithful to you and your cause. We don’t want betrayers. They should be committed to you and your ambition and with this, the coast is clear for you by God’s grace,” he added. Also, the National President, Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Comrade Olatunji Ambali, appreciated Mr Governor for taking the welfare and general well-being of the masses, particularly workers in the State as a priority, saying his good works would speak for him to be returned. In the same vein, the State Chairman, Joint Negotiating Council, Comrade Bayo Adejumo, said workers were solidly behind Mr Governor and they were resolute to reciprocate his good gestures as demonstrated in the prompt payment of their salaries, emoluments and wages. Adejumo disclosed their readiness to campaign massively for the second term of Governor Oyetola. He said the era of political apathy in civil service has gone and that now is the time to reward remarkable, unprecedented and excellent performance. Presenting the Expression of Intention and Nomination Forms to the Governor, the State APC Chairman-elect, Prince Gboyega Famodun, urged the Governor to see the good gesture that led to the purchase of the forms as a rare honour for him to continue his good works. Famodun, who described the gesture as a noble mandate for Mr Governor to run for the second term in order to further lead the State to enviable heights, said, “It is an indication that you have done excellently well and performed creditably well within the period you have been at the helms of affairs.” A former Deputy Governor, Mrs Titilayo Laoye Ponle, and Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Hon Timothy Owoeye, described the re-election bid of Mr Governor as ‘a round peg in a round hole’, saying the Governor is eminently qualified to be returned to serve the people for the second term. Meanwhile, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola on Tuesday began his strategic engagement tour of all Councils in the State. It was gathered that the tour would enable the governor to interact with the people and also present his report card to the people for scrutiny. The tour, tagged, “Have you in mind always” will kick off at Ayedaade Grammar School, Ikire, in Irewole Local Government and move to ADC Grammar School, Apomu, in Isokan Local Government, and round off for Day 1 at St. Paul Primary School, Oke Church, Gbongan, Ayedaade Local Government. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Osun 2022: Oyetola receives expression of intention, nomination forms How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!