The Kaduna State Police Command has said officers of the command has foiled a kidnap attempt along the Birnin-Gwari Kaduna road, thereby rescuing sixteen victims. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Police Public relations officer (PPRO), ASP Muhammed Jalige, for the Commissioner of police in Kaduna. According to the statement, “On the 16th January, 2022, the Kaduna Police Command through Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Buruku received information that some persons were sighted around Msallaci area, along Birnin Gwari road who were suspected to be victims of kidnapping. “On the strength of the report, the DPO immediately mobilized personnel on a rescue mission to the area. On sighting the advancing troops the hoodlums took to their heels leaving behind sixteen (16) victims whom the Operatives successfully rescued; namely, Patience Markus ‘F’, Mercy Musa ‘F’, Gloria Sunday ‘F’, Yunis Sunday ‘M’, Peace Ayuba ‘F’, Grace Sunday ‘F’, Sarafina Sunday ‘F’, Mechak Musa ‘M’. “These mentioned victims are residents of Udawa village of Chikun LGA while (9) Musa Mudu ‘M’, Joshua Mudu ‘M’, Jummai Musa ‘F’, Alfa Markus ‘M’ are of Gadagi Baggi Village of the same LGA. Meanwhile, Abdulaziz Shola ‘M’, Tanimu Muhammed ‘M’, Mutari Idris ‘M’ and Sani Musa ‘M’ are from Lagos, Kano, Zamfara and Niger states respectively. “The above success recorded by the Command is not unconnected with the community participation and vigilance cum prompt reportage to the security agencies thus, the Command is urging other communities to emulate same in a bit to secure our respective communities from criminal elements,” the statement said. In another development, the statement said the command had on the 16th January, 2022 acted on a report that a Toyota Corolla vehicle was seen packed in a seemingly suspicious manner at old tipper garage Mando Kaduna. “The Police Operatives of the Command attached to Kawo Division immediately swung into action and recovered the vehicle with Reg. No KSF 674 HD Maroon in colour to the station for further investigation and possible arrest of the perpetrators. Meanwhile, preliminary investigation reveals that the said vehicle was snatched at gunpoint in Zaria metropolis as effort is on to identify the rightful owner.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!