The leadership of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), on Monday declared that there was no crisis whatsoever in the party as was being made to believe in some quarters. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, its National Publicity Secretary, Ambassador Rufus B.Aiyenigba stated that the party’s structures from the Ward, Local, State and the National levels were very much interact and that the party’s National Executive Committee led by Dr Olu Agunloye was busy strategizing ahead of the 2023 general elections during when it would field candidates for all elective offices. A Group in the Party led by Dr Abdul Ahmed Isiaq,the suspended Deputy National Chairman – North on Sunday the suspension of its National Chairman, Dr Olu Agunloye and National Secretary, Alhaji Shehu Musa Gabam. The Group who claimed to be acting in capacity as the National Executive Committee, NEC of the Party said that after its emergency meeting unanimously suspended were the duo of Agunloye and Shehu Gabn and appointed the party’s Deputy Chairman, Abdul Mohammed Isa as Ogunloye’s replacement and Simon Adesina as National Secretary pending the outcome of its convention slated April 27 to 29, 2022. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE While describing the action of the group as “illegal and a joke taken too far by jesters” the NPS displayed official communication of the Party to the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, the Police, Department of State Services, DSS and other relevant agencies over the urgly development and that based on convincing evidences that group actually forged several documents to convene their illegal National Executive Committee NEC meeting of the Party, the security agencies were already hunting for them. According to him, “Dr. Abdul Isiaq was duly suspended on January 15th 2022 and lacks the authority to convene a National Executive Committee (NEC), meeting. all the party structures are intact, there is nothing to suggest that there is any crisis here, the people at that illegal gathering are not known to us, they impostors” He listed some of the reasons why Ahmad Isiaq was suspended as contained in the letter the party wrote to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Department of State Police (DSS), and the Nigerian Police to include: “Dr. Abdul Isiaq, erstwhile Deputy National Chairman North of the SDP, has no authority to whatsoever to call a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting without the approval of the National Chairman, Olu Agunloye or the National Working Committee (NWC). “And that all the actions taken be Isiaq were taken while he was still suspended. “Dr. Abdul took these untoward steps at a time he was under suspension. He was suspended from the party for gross misconduct and fraudulent acts by the NWC on 17th January 2022. “And that the suspension was duly communicated to INEC.” He therefore appealed to party members nationwide to remain calm as there was no reason for concern as being made to believe in some quarters. This came just as a presidential aspirant under the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Prof. Femi Olufunmilade, promised 100% budget implementation if elected as Nigerian President come 2023. He made the promise on Monday in Abuja at the national Secretariat of the SDP. When he came to submit his letter of intention to contest for the executive office of the President federal republic of Nigeria under the party’s platform Prof. Femi Olufunmilade, who was at the party national Secretariat to submit his letter if intention to vie for the office of the President federal republic of Nigeria. He also promised to implement budget close to 100% with a website where citizens can monitor budget implementation. If elected as President of Nigeria. According to him, “my government will implement budget close to 100%. And government will have a website for citizens to monitor budget implementation”. Prof. Olufunmilade said the major cause of separatist agitations in the country; was as a result of government’s non adherence to the principles of federal character as enshrined in the Federal Character Act. Which was designed to cater for the interest of all Nigerian citizens. “Non adherence to federal character principles caused the separatist agitations.” According to him, “I prefer prevention of corruption to tackling corruption. And there will be a national award to the person that exposes the biggest fraud.’ On insecurity he said he has developed a policy strategy which was adopted by the military under former Chief of Army Staff, General. Tukur Buratia. And that if it is well implemented, the Nigerian security outfits will completely defeat the insurgents. National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Olu Agunloye said, Prof. Femi Olafunmilade, an aide to late former Minister of power and steel, Chief Bola Ige. Is a known person to him and that he’s a man of principles. “We have confidence in Femi. he’s a man principles.” He also said that the SDP stands for a new Nigeria with where the old things would not be done with the hope of a new Nigeria. “SDP stands for a new Nigeria, a new model. Because we don’t want to continue to do old things and expect new results.” He said How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!