A medical doctor working with the World Health Organization (WHO) in Benue State, Dr Samuel Nyityo, has died of lassa fever in the state. State Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Professor Joseph Ngbea, confirmed his death. Against the insinuation that another person also died alongside the doctor, the commissioner said that only the medical doctor had so far died of lassa fever in the state. He added that one other patient is said to be in a stable condition. The Nigerian Tribune reliably gathered that the medical doctor who earlier had two of his neighbours treated for lassa fever in December 2021 died at Eruwa in Edo State on Sunday. Professor Ngbea told our correspondent on the phone that, “the medical doctor was diagnosed with lassa fever a few days ago and when there was no dialysis at the teaching hospital we quickly sent him to Eruwa in Edo State where he died on Sunday.” He however said that the government had begun contact tracing of those who likely met with the victims. “We have also procured drugs worth N600,000.00. The emergency unit has come out with an action plan and has been mobilized to go into the houses of the two people to get those who had contact with them as well as to find out whether there are rodents there,” the commissioner said. Professor Ngbea added that the state government will soon organise a workshop on lassa fever to create more awareness on why people should not keep anything that will encourage rats into their homes. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 