The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has scheduled its outstanding zonal congress for its North-West Zone for the purpose of electing Zonal Working Committee and National Ex-Officios for Saturday, February 12, 2022. According to a statement issued by Hon. Umaru M. Bature, its National Organizing Secretary, this was part of the resolutions of the National Working Committee (NWC) at its meeting on Wednesday. The statement informed that the North-West Zonal Congress will hold at the zonal headquarters of the party in Kaduna State. It urged all critical stakeholders and its teeming members in the North-West Zone should be informed and guided accordingly. I’m a separate development, the PDP on Thursday inaugurated three separate committees including the Tenders Committee, Committee for the Review of Party’s Establishment Manual and Scheme of Service, and Staff Audit Committee. According to the National Secretary of the party, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, the committees were set up as part of efforts by NWC to “restore sanity in the party and rescue Nigeria.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<