The Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Ebonyi State, Nwoba Chika Nwoba was on Wednesday arraigned before a Magistrate Court sitting in Abakaliki, the state capital for allegedly publishing false information against Governor David Umahi on his Facebook handle and also publishing materials capable of disturbing public peace. The offence according to the charges against him was punishable under section 4 of the state cybercrimes (Prohibition Law No. 012 of 2021). Nwoba was arrested last three weeks by the state command of Ebubeagu Security Network and handed to the police for prosecution which sparked off outcry by his party. He was to be arraigned that last three weeks but slumped in court. The court ordered that he should be taken to a medical facility for medical attention after which he will face the charges preferred against him. Nwoba, was arraigned and remanded by the Magistrate court presided over by Blessing Chukwu. The 15-count charge was preferred against Nwoba which he pleaded not guilty. The court ruled that it has no jurisdiction to entertain the matter and ordered that Nwoba be remanded in police custody, undergo Covid-19 test and be taken to Correctional Service Center. The court adjourned the matter to February 4 for a report of compliance and ordered that the case file be forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecution. Nwoba’s counsel, Luke Nkwegu had argued before the court that the state cybercrimes Prohibition Law upon which Nwoba was being tried has not been gazetted and prayed the court to grant the defendant bail. He told journalists that the next line of action was to utilize the provisions of the law to get Nwoba out of them which he said starts immediately. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police arraign PDP  Police arraign PDP Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police arraign PDP  Police arraign PDP How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!