NIGERIANS have been called upon to worship Allah wholeheartedly at all times and fear Him in their dealings with all manner of people. A renowned Islamic scholar, Dr Yusuf Kolawole Jimoh, made this call on Wednesday in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, at the one year special prayer for the pioneer Grand Khadi of Kwara State, the late Justice Abdulkadir Orire, who was the chairman of the Islamic Missionaries’ Association of Nigeria (IMAN). Jimoh observed that most wealthy Muslims were not doing much to reduce the hardship being faced by many Nigerians, whereas the wealth Allah had endowed them with was not meant for them alone but to help others and earn His pleasure in the process. He described the departed Sarkin Malami of Ilorin Emirate, Justice Orire, as a God-fearing, committed and highly resourceful scholar who spent his life on the propagation of Islam. He beseeched Allah to forgive him and bless his soul. Dignitaries that attended the special prayer session included the state governor, Abdul-Rahman Abdul-Razaq; the state Grand Khadi, Justice Ola Abdulkadir; Kadis of the state Sharia Court of Appeal; chairman of IMAN, Alhaji Abdullahi Nurudeen; Professor Badmus Lanre Yusuf; national coordinator of the Muslim Media Watch Group of Nigeria (MMWG), Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim; members of various Muslim organisations and friends and members of the Orire family. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Nigerians counselled at remembrance  Nigerians counselled at remembrance Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Nigerians counselled at remembrance Nigerians counselled at remembrance How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!