I want to say a big thank you to all my readers. It takes a lot to take time to read these days. In the last few months, I have received various questions from you all and I will like to address them this week and the next; so that others can learn and gain clarity.  How can I start my wealth creation journey without any money? A lot of people were asking the question “If I want to go and create wealth, how do I do it if I don’t have any money?” Well, the fact is it is actually called wealth creation, not wealth multiplication. It is not a get-rich-quick scheme. If it was called wealth multiplication, then it would make sense. But wealth creation is actually building wealth up from scratch. The best way to begin the journey of wealth creation, I believe, is it, first of all, to increase the knowledge you have around wealth, learn wealth vocabularies and their meanings. Because the interesting thing about how our mind operates is we are conditioned to only observe and experience, and be aware of the opportunities that we can comprehend inside the dialect we have inside our mind. So if your mind can’t fit an opportunity into the language that you have inside your mind, it just deletes the opportunity altogether. So one of the first things that I did in my own personal wealth creation journey was to increase my knowledge around wealth creation concepts. Things like asset classes, liability, debt portfolio, investment, hedge funds, etc. There are five core asset classes that people build wealth in all over the world. And so, learning just about all of these is a starting point that will actually allow you to open up to see opportunities around you. Things like debt reduction, debt recycling, debt leveraging. These kinds of concepts are phrases that actually mean something. And if you understand the meaning behind them, they open you up to a new world of possibility. So one of the easiest starting points for anybody who’s wanting to start a wealth creation journey without money is to start LEARNING as much as possible. Increase your learning and you’ll find the opportunities starts to present themselves. And you realize that wealth creation is something that can be done by anybody, even if you have no money right now.  How can I earn money without stress? I know a lot of people out there are very stressed when it comes to earning money. In fact, unfortunately, money creates a large amount of stress in the body, and we also know that stress is one of the leading causes of heart disease and cancers, and a whole range of different illnesses that we experience really do have the origins in stress. And what we do find is that money is one of these things that creates a large amount of stress. Both in the creation of wealth, itself, but also in not having money. If you want to start to create money without being stressed out, first, of all you have to understand how money is created. Simply put, money is basically is created through exchanging value in a marketplace. For example, you can get a piece of fabric. And you can make it into a beautiful dress. And then you can go and sell that dress to a lady that needs it. In doing that creation of value, you in fact make money. So the key to actually making money without stress is to find some things that you are inspired to create. Now you may be inspired to teach people what you know like I am doing right now. And then you make money through that. That is how most trainers, consultants started. You don’t have to buy and sell. You can sell knowledge without stress. So to answer your question, if you would like to create money without being stressed, then you’ve got to find something to create that doesn’t stress you. That is valuable in the marketplace.  How can I avoid impulse buying and spending? If you are an impulse spender, you are definitely not alone in this one. I have been a victim of impulse spending as well. I am not sure anyone can really avoid impulse buying and spending. I think, if you’re able to generate and create value in the marketplace, then you can consume whatever it is that you like. The problem however is that you buy and spend on impulse with money you don’t have. I have heard people who use credit cards and loans to buy on impulse. That is the most ridiculous action to take and if you are consistently doing that, your wealth creation goal will suffer greatly. My candid advice is; first create, then consume. So, you’re allowed to consume. You’re allowed to do impulse buying. You’re allowed to spend money on things, you’re allowed to buy your sister, your parents, yourself a house, a car or even a boat. You’re allowed to go on an expensive holiday. You’re allowed to do whatever you want with your money. You earned it, you created the value. You can do whatever you want with it. However, rather than trying to curb your impulse spending, what I would first look at is to try and increase your ability to create value for the marketplace that will generate several streams of income for you. Because if you do learn to create value in the marketplace, then you’re able to consume whatever it is that you like.  I am in debt; how can I create wealth? Debt is not entirely a bad thing. It however depends on whether it is a liability or leverage. Most wealthy people have used debt/loans as leverages because they understand the matrix and how it works. If your debt is a liability to you right now, you need to find a way to pay it off first before you start to build your wealth. Don’t use debt to start your wealth creation journey as a newbie. I hear many people who use a loan to pay another loan and the circle goes on. Though there is a lot of leverage involved in using (OPM) other people’s money, I will advise you to tread carefully. Financial intelligence is required for this. I wish every woman reading my column, God’s speed as you start this journey. Feel free to send in more questions as we get answers and gain more clarity next week. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!