The 2021 academic calendar has been successfully concluded with various remarkable challenges and prospects, in terms of academic and moral standard, the development of which has called for every proprietor of schools in the country to re-strategise on the academic progress and moral development of their pupils/ students, especially at the primary and secondary school levels in this 2022 academic year. Since the governor of Oyo State, Seyi  Makinde assumed office, his commitment to education in terms of financing and human capacity development, the state schools have witnessed some remarkable improvements, especially in academic performance in the external certificate examinations and also in the extra curriculum activities within and outside the country.  His government policy on stakeholders’ school development support initiative in the state public schools has enhanced the education development process in the state so far. This was evidenced in the brilliant performance of  ST ANNE’s School, Ibadan, in the 2021 Queen’s International Commonwealth Competition, held around September last year, where  Mariam  Lawal a final year Senior Secondary School student and her colleague in the school, Deborah  Olatunji bagged the  Bronze and   Silver Awards respectively in the completion that involved about 71 countries. It is indeed worthy of note that the Educational Advanced  Centre, Bodija, Ibadan,  one of the first private  Cambridge   Advanced  Level education training and examination centres in Nigeria, offered the two awardees a full scholarship for the Advanced Level education in the school in view of their performances in the international competition. Sharing their experiences in the completion, Mariam  Lawal and  Deborah  Olatunji attributed their successes to the quality education being offered by the teachers, culminated by the conducive learning environment made available by the school management. According to them, teachers in St Anne’s School are loco parentis and academically sound in their subject fields, with teaching experience that makes learning stress free for the students in the school.  They asserted that at St Anne’s School learning does not take place until the slow learners comprehend the topic. ‘’This is what we enjoy in the school that enhances our academic performance. “More importantly, the intervention of the school’s old students Association Popularly called Seminary- St  Anne’s School Old Girls (SSASOGA)  Association in the academic and infrastructural development of the school cannot be overemphasized in view of its impact on the quality of education being offered in the school.  As matter of  fact, the association has established indelible legacy in the college for  others to emulate,” they said While sharing their experiences in the competition, Mariam  Lawal stated that it was the old student  Association that introduced them to the International Essay Competition organized by the office of the  Queen of England annually. She said:  “The Association facilitated and coordinated the whole activities of the programme to the final level with the keen assistance from our teachers and the honourable principal of the school. The topic of the essay of the competition for the year 2021 edition, The essay competition was based on Coronavirus . It was an online thing. The two of us registered for the competition and at the end of the exercise,  I won the bronze medal,  while my colleague, Deborah Olatunji had the silver award. “I make bold to say that St, Anne’s  School, though a public school in Oyo State, runs a  quality academic and moral education. We also want to thank the management of the Educational Advancement Centre for the scholarship it offered us in recognition of our performance in the international  competition. “The most impressive thing about these students is  that they were all  from the public school in the state, where much is not expected in terms of quality education and academic performance.” One of the parents of the awardees, Oluwagbemiga   Olatunji confirmed the high quality of education and moral standard being offered in  St, Anne’s School,  Ibadan,  and a few other public secondary schools in the state. According to him, if every successive government in Nigeria at the federal and the state levels would improve their commitments to public school education system development in terms of infrastructural and human capital development,   as well as functional curriculum that can promote disciplined and sound education,  the development would go a long way to resuscitate the collapsing public school system,  through where the best leaders of this country passed through. While commending the old students association of St Anne’s School for its contributions towards the development of the school, he asserted that parents are also major stakeholders in the education sector whose active participation should not be lacking in the school management system. According to him, parents have a lot of work to do in the education process of their children to ensure that they are well endowed with moral and academic excellence education. He encouraged the state government in the country to continue to give public school system development a priority. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING!