The Federal Government has charged newly inducted medical graduates to desist from joining incessant strikes by doctors in the country. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige gave this charge in Abuja while speaking at the induction of six medical graduates of the University of Abuja (UniAbuja) into the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN). Ngige, whose son, Dr Andrew Ngige, was among the new inductees, urged the medical graduates to be of good behaviour and uphold the highest ethical standards while carrying out their duties. He reminded them that the medical profession is a noble one; hence, they should abstain from any conduct which is capable of bringing their esteemed profession to disrepute. He said, “I am a medical doctor. One of you being inducted here is my second son. My first son is a medical doctor. My daughter is also a medical doctor. By virtue of ethics, our oath as doctors is to save lives. That is our primary duty. “If doctors go on strike, people will die. That is the truth. Human life is irreplaceable. How do you bring back people who have died as a result of doctors not being at their duty posts? “It is unethical for doctors to embark on strike. I have said it so many times in the past and I will continue to say it. Doctors should not go on strike. Therefore, you should desist from joining strikes in the interest of humanity and our noble profession.” Earlier, the Registrar MDCN, Dr Tajudeen Sanusi, told the inductees that they were ethically bound to do certain things as medical doctors, warning that anything contrary to that would attract the hammer of the council. Other dignitaries at the induction ceremony include Sen. Ngige’s wife and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr Evelyn Ngige and the Dean, College of Medicine, University of Abuja, Prof. Felicia Anumah. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…