THE Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) have described the security situation in the North as very bad and called on the Federal Government to help the region get out of the quagmire. The groups’ call came on the heels of the recent attacks on two government facilities in Borno State. During the week, the Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram insurgents attacked the Police Training College, Gwoza and Tukur Buratai Military Institute, Buratai. In a reaction, the ACF called on the Federal Government to help the region, noting that the embarrassment the situation was causing the country and its security agencies was too much. The group said: “It is clear that what these people (insurgents) are doing is to embarrass the military and police authorities as well the Federal Government. They are now attacking soft targets so that people will be afraid.” Speaking on behalf of the forum, the National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, said the Federal Government should be conscious of such moves and take steps to preempt them. He said: “It is time to take these measures and reduce this embarrassment instead of making bogus claims that they have been degraded or subdued by the security agencies.” In the same vein, the CNG said the situation was becoming complicated by the day and getting to a point where Nigerians would have to return to the drawing board and adopt a uniform approach with a national resolve behind it. In an interview with Saturday Tribune, the spokesman of the coalition, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, also said that the situation in the North in terms of security was terrible. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do something before leaving office so as to avoid leaving a bad legacy. Suleiman said: “Buhari must do all he can to avoid leaving behind a bad legacy because in 2015, Nigerians, especially Northerners, trusted him to get them through and out of their limitations into a future free from the threats of insurgency and other forms of criminality. “The situation in the North West requires more public involvement like what obtains in Borno with the civilian JTF. Unfortunately, the governors of states in the North West appear either in total isolation or in deep denial as to the urgency of collective and coordinated action. “We recall that in the early days of the Buhari administration, there were remarkable successes against Boko Haram and ISWAP, making Borno and the North East a relatively secure place with the insurgents pinned to enclaves. “Unfortunately, as we can see, the improved security environment is being lost with the current resurgence. “The situation in the North West is also deteriorating, given multiple dimensions to the security challenges though the scenarios are different. “In Borno, the insurgents have been pushed out of the hinterland to dispersed cells in the forests, whereas in the North West, they appear to be deeply entrenched within the communities. “In Borno, we all read about the untiring efforts of the governor and the unprecedented response by the public to support the fight against the insurgency. “Here, what needs to be done is for the government to take the fight to the forests by deploying all its might and, if need be, inviting international support would be another option.” A few days ago, the state governor, Professor Babagana Zulum, confirmed that 11 local government areas of the state had been freed from the grip of the insurgents, while two local government areas were still under their control. During the attack on the police college in Gwoza at about 8.22 p.m. on Thursday, it was gathered, the Boko Haram insurgents kidnapped about a dozen police instructors. A source who pleaded for anonymity said the insurgents arrived at the college in trucks and shot sporadically into the air before kidnapping the instructors. The college, 25 kilometres from Gwoza, the hometown of Senator Ali Ndume, borders Madagali Local Government Area of Adamawa State. The attack came seven days after the terrorists attempted to infiltrate the Nigerian Army base in Gwoza before they were repelled by men of the Nigerian Army. It was gathered that the Senate Committee on Army led by Senator Ndume paid a working visit to the theatre command of Operation Hadin Kai in the area two days ago. Police and military officials were yet to react to the development as of the time of filing the report. It was gathered that ISWAP killed two staff members and three residents of the town during its attack on Tukur Buratai Military Institute, Buratai. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!