A 300-level student of the University of Jos (UNIJOS), identified as Jennifer Anthony, has been killed and her body mutilated, with some parts missing. Nigerian Tribune learnt that the deceased, who was a student of the Department of Special Education and Rehabilitation Science, was lured to a hotel on Zaria road in Jos, by a man suspected to be her boyfriend, where she was allegedly drugged before being killed. It was gathered that the boyfriend, after the act, left the hotel and removed virtually everything that might be used to trace him, including the lady’s phone and other valuables in her bag. A source close to the hotel disclosed that the mutilated body of the girl was discovered by one of her friends who traced her to the hotel and discovered her in a pool of her blood, while the eyes and other organs were missing. “The friend who discovered the body alerted the hotel workers, who then invited the police. The remains of the lady had been deposited at the Plateau State Specialist Hospital,” the source said. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Gabriel Ogaba, confirmed the incident. He said the command had commenced full investigations into the incident. Ogaba said: “The command is aware of the ugly incident which took place on January 1, at a hotel [name withheld]. The suspect, who is at large, went away with all means to identify the victim. “The commissioner of police has ordered a discrete investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident and to arrest the perpetrators of that dastardly act. We promise to furnish the media with more details on the incident as it unfolds.” He added that the commissioner of police also had a security meeting with hoteliers in Jos on Thursday over the incident and gave them tips on how to avoid future occurrence. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…