Tragedy struck at the National Assembly, Abuja on Monday as a staff member reportedly collapsed and died while ascending the second floor of the White House through the staircase. It was gathered that the deceased, simply identified as  Abdul Olajide Abayomi, 34, tripped and fell on the upper rung of the staircase. According to eyewitness accounts, he immediately rolled onto the step landing before help could come his way. The witnesses stated that those who sighted him when he fell were said to have alerted other staff who immediately came to his aid. His colleagues were said to have rushed him to the National Assembly Clinic for medical attention but he died on the way there. He was said to have died of cardiac arrest and other underlying ailments. He was with the Inter-Parliamentary Department under the Directorate of Inter-Parliamentary and Protocols of the National Assembly’s bureaucracy. He was said to have married on December 4, 2021. While he was from Osun State, his wife is said to be from Delta. Also, an Ad hoc worker was also said to have fallen from a scaffold while working at the fourth floor of the National Assembly Complex which left him with a deep cut on his head, aside other injuries. The worker (not a staff) was said to have been taken to the National Hospital where he is receiving medical attention. The injured worker is said to be recuperating. When contacted on the reports, the Director of Information, National Assembly, Dr Emmanuel Agada, said he could not confirm the death since he has not received any information on it. According to him, “Honestly, i just left the office but I didn’t get any such information on the incident. So I am not in a position now to confirm the story, but am going to find out and get back to you”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!