Coca-Cola Africa Operating Unit(“AOU”) and its bottling partners have explained that the decision to launch JAMII, a new Africa-focused sustainability platform, that accommodates the Company’s existing and new sustainability initiatives, stem from the  need to  build and expand on  past accomplishments in three areas, namely: water stewardship,  economic empowerment of women and youth and waste management. This, the company said it planned to deliver together with bottling partners, system employees, and several NGO partners. Speaking virtually at the launch of the signature platform recently, Africa President, The Coca-Cola Company, Bruno Pietracci, stated that the initiative was part of the company’s responsibilities, as market leaders, to make a meaningful difference in empowering and protecting its operating communities. “Whether it is giving people access to safe drinking water, creating economic opportunities for people in dire need of it, or reducing the impact of our operations on the environment, we are committed to making that difference,” he stated. Also speaking on the new initiative,  AOU Vice President for Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability, Patricia Obozuwa,  explained that the choice of the name, JAMII,  a Swahili name,  which means community, society and people, was  arrived at, because  it represents the African people, and aligns  with the values of the organisation. “We chose the name JAMII, a Swahili word that means Community, Society, People – because it represents who we are as Africans and aligns with our values as an organization, our resilience, our commitment, and our spirit of community. “Consolidating our sustainability efforts under this umbrella will allow us to strengthen our value proposition and make good on our promise to continue to be a trusted partner for sustainable growth in Africa,” she added. Obonzuwa further explained that JAMII would, in the area of women and youth economic empowerment, promote and stimulate entrepreneurship opportunities through the provision of improved access to skills training, networks, finance and markets. She added that Coca-Cola Africa had already commenced the process of forming new partnerships to  facilitate the implementation of JAMII projects that would  deliver on these goals. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!