Osun State governor,  Mr Adegboyega Oyetola, was on Friday made Nigerian NewsDirect Newspaper’s Man and Best Governor of the Year 2021 respectively, by the newspaper organization. The event was held at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos. He was presented with the awards by former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed, who himself was an award recipient on the occasion, on behalf of the newspaper organisation. Tinubu was represented on the occasion by the  Lagos State Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Tunji Bello, while Oyetola was represented by his Chief of Staff, Dr. Charles Akinola. Responding, Oyetola described the awards as a recognition of the modest achievements and transformation the administration have recorded since assumption of office over three years ago. He further said “for us, these past years we have spent in the saddle, have provided us an invaluable opportunity to put our people first and build a legacy that will endure. “This legacy is anchored on a Development Agenda that is passionately focused on putting the Osun economy on a sure footing of sustainability via radical economic diversification and development of requisite human capital. “Whether it is the revolutionary transformation of the health sector that has seen us construct and revitalise 332 Primary Health Centres across all wards of our State, to the purposeful reform or the sanitation of the mining sector which has seen our State produce its first set of gold bars in commercial quantity, or the rural urban infrastructure renewal that is now characterised by over 300 kilometers of road projects, or our deliberate investment and market development programme that is being widely commended for re-enacting the glory of our state as a hub for business development, among other multi-sectoral achievements, it is to put our people first and to build a prosperous society that works not only for today, but for tomorrow. “We have, in discharging our responsibilities, realized that our people are invaluable partners in progress and as such, their voices must be heard and factored into our development efforts. “We are grateful today that despite being a State widely noted for its present financial limitations, we have done far more with little resources than most of our contemporaries,” Oyetola added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!