Police operatives in Delta State have arrested six kidnap and robbery suspects in parts of the state and Bayelsa. Godstime Rufus, 22, Stanley Efeme, 21 and Davidson Esiso, 35, all from Agbarho, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta, were arrested in connection with the alleged kidnap of a victim who reported to the police after escaping. The victim (name withheld) was abducted at 9:30 pm on January 22, 2022, along Esiso Street Agbarho, but escaped in the process of transferring him to another vehicle. He later spotted one of his abductors, Godstime Rufus, and immediately alerted the police leading to his arrest and that of two others. Similarly, George Akporie, 25, Prosper Asaeta, 29 and Eziekel Stephen, 23, from Igbide community in Oleh, Isoko South Local Government Area of the state were arrested at Sagbama, Bayelsa State in connection with the robbery of a victim. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman The 33-year-old victim (name withheld) was allegedly shot on March 5, 2021, by three robbery suspects and his Qlink motorcycle was snatched away. The incident occurred between Olomoro and Ehwne communities in Isoko South after which the victim was rushed to Olomro General Hospital where he was treated and discharged. But luck ran out of the robbery suspects when on January 23, 2022, the victim spotted one of the hoodlums around Sagbama, Bayelsa State and he immediately alerted the Bayelsa Police Command and the suspects rounded up. In a statement made available to journalists in Delta on Wednesday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, said the Commissioner of Police, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, directed the police operatives from Oleh Division to proceed to Bayelsa State for the arrest of the suspects. He said a locally-made gun was recovered from the three suspects and they would be charged to court upon completion of the investigation. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!