The Lagos State government has cleared five students and five employees of Dowen College, Lagos, accused of complicity in the death of 12-year-old Sylvester Oromoni. The state cleared them as well as the school following the legal advice of the Director of Public Prosecution, Ms. Adetutu Oshinusi. A copy of the legal advice, according to Channels Television, was addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Investigation Department, and the magistrate, Olatunbosun Adeola. According to the advice, the interim and final autopsy reports issued by the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) and toxicology report of post-mortem samples and that of the Central Hospital, Warri, were in agreement as to the cause of death namely: Septicaemia, Lobar Pneumonia with Acute Pyelonephritis, Pyomyositis of the right ankle and Acute Bacteria Pneumonia due to severe Sepsis. The result of the toxicology is also not indicative of any toxic or poisonous substance in the body of the deceased. The DPP’s legal advice, therefore, concluded that based on these findings, there is no prima facie case of murder, involuntary manslaughter and or malicious administering of poison with intent to harm against the five students, Favour Benjamin aged 16, Michael Kashamu (15), Edward Begue (16), Ansel Temile (14) and Kenneth Inyang (15). The state also cleared the minors of belonging to unlawful society due to insufficient facts to establish the offence. It stated that “from available facts in the duplicate case file, the investigation carried out by the police did not reveal that any secret society name, tattoo or insignia of any unlawful society was found in the possession of any of the suspects during the investigation carried out by the police. “To hold otherwise would amount to sniffing for an offence and a speculative act which is not permitted in law. It is trite law that suspicion no matter how grave cannot be a ground for conviction.” The state also cleared the school and five employees: Celina Uduak, Valentine Igboekweze, Hammed Ayomo Bariyu, Adesanya Olusesan Olusegun and one Adeyemi of the offence of Negligent Act Causing Harm contrary to section 252 of the Criminal Law Ch. C17, Vol.3, Laws of Lagos State 2015. The state, therefore, directed that all the suspects should be released if they are still in custody YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Oromoni: Lagos govt clears five Dowen College students, staff, orders their release Oromoni: Lagos govt clears five Dowen College students, staff, orders their release