New winners of the AfroZons Dubai Soundoff Giveaway have started to emerge from across the globe. According to a statement by the organisers, Over 70 free packages were provided to lucky Afrobeat fans, who had the chance to win this very unique opportunity to see Dubai courtesy of their local AfroZons radio show hosts and sponsored by Dubai’s Department for Economy and Tourism, DET). The statement disclosed that “so far, winners have emerged from The USA, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Zambia, Tanzania, Uganda, UK, and Angola. The expected winners, who will have the opportunity to travel with a partner, will get two return tickets, accommodation, tickets to Expo 2020, access to the very exclusive Afrobeat Desert Safari Party, and all activities linked to the Soundoff. Popular Afrobeat sensation, D’Banj, who was the first artist to put an Afrobeat song in the UK top 10 with his single “Oliver Twist” has promised visitors a memorable experience and has hinted at many more surprises during the Soundoff experience. D’Banj who has been on various radio stations, promoting the rare opportunity, revealed his deep and very meaningful connection with Dubai. According to the award-winning artist, Dubai has inspired him in various ways as he confessed that he got the inspiration for his soon-to-be-launched self-named perfume, from Dubai. It’s also where, on his first visit, he met his good friend and mentor, Kanye West. According to him, since that encounter, “things just got better for me. Now you can’t write my story without mentioning Dubai in it.” The Soundoff which is slated to hold from the 3rd to 9th of March 2022 promises to be fun-packed. Packages, which are fast selling, are limited and heavily discounted. Dubai’s Department of Economy and Tourism (DET), formally known as Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (DTCM) is the principal authority for the planning, supervision, development, and marketing of Dubai’s tourism sector. It markets and promotes the Emirate’s commerce sector and is responsible for the licensing and classification of all tourism services, including hotels, tour operators, and travel agents. Brands and departments within the Dubai Tourism portfolio include Dubai Business Events, Dubai Calendar, and Dubai Festivals and Retail Establishment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…