The Oredo Local Government Area of Edo State revenue enforcement team on Wednesday arrested an illegal revenue collector, simply identified as Bisi Adewunmi. Adewunmi was arrested on Wednesday morning by the enforcement team led by the head, Mr. Monday Edosa, while collecting revenue from wheelbarrow pushers selling sugarcane, hawkers, etc, at the Government Reservation Area, GRA, end of Ezoti Street, Benin Çity. An online journalist in the Edo State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), names withheld, had stumbled on the illegal revenue collector, donning the Oredo ‘revenue collector vest’, harassing hawkers, wheelbarrow pushers around Ezoti Street by Reservation Road junction, collecting money from them in the name of the LGA The journalist, who became suspicious of Adewunmi’s activities, put a call across to the Director of Revenue Matters, Oredo, Comrade Agbons Uyigue to enquire why the council should be collecting revenue from hawkers, but the council disassociated the council from the acts and immediately ordered for his arrest. Uyigue sent his enforcement team, led by Edosa, to the scene and the illegal collector was arrested. Speaking after the arrest, the head of the enforcement team, Comrade Edosa, said that the pullover vest worn by the suspect bearing ‘Oredo Revenue Collector’ was fake adding that the suspect too was not from the council. Also buttressing Edosa’s claim, the Director of Revenue Matters, Comrade Uyigue said the colour used for the vest was never an Oredo colour, just as he outrightly described the vest as fake and the suspect as an impostor. The Director added that the suspect was making some confessional statement as regards his accomplices, after which he would be prosecuted at the appropriate law court. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…