THE Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has approved the construction of a N1bn Digital Park in Ibadan, Oyo State. Professor Adeolu Akande, Chairman of the Commission, made this disclosure during a meeting with youth leaders across the state at an end of the year session in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital, recently. He added that the commission has also approved other ICT projects for schools in Saki, Ipapo, Eruwa and Otu in the state. He said: “The Digital Park was one of the four approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) as part of efforts to facilitate a digital economy in the country. “The contract for the physical structure had been awarded and the budget of N500m for the equipment had been approved for the 2022 fiscal year. “The four digital parks were located in Federal Capital Territory, Katsina, Gombe and Ibadan, while three other digital parks were to be located in the remaining three geo-political zones of the country. “The physical work of the park is projected at N500 million each while the equipment for each is also projected to cost another N500m each. The projects are scheduled for completion in 2022. “When completed, the Digital Park would boost digital skills acquisition among youths, promote innovations, provide jobs for the teeming Nigerian youths and ultimately support the overall digital transformation agenda of the President Muhamadu Buhari-led government”. He stressed that the Digital ICT Park will provide a Commercial Hub for ICT that will promote entrepreneurial activities in ICT and facilitate smart city deployment across the Digital Industrial Complex. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…