The Chairman, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Alhaji Zikrullah Kunle Hassan, on Tuesday, urged the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to reconsider its recent ban on flights from Nigeria into the Kingdom in the interest of Nigerian intending pilgrims for Hajj and Umrah who are NAHCON’s primary constituency. Hassan made the case for the lifting of the direct entry ban when he led a high-powered delegation from the commission to the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Nigeria. The delegation’s visit to the embassy, according to a statement made available to Tribune Online by the Head, Public Affairs of the commission, Fatima Sanda Usara, was to discuss issues of mutual benefit to both countries regarding Hajj and Umrah operations. It was also to press on the Federal Government’s request for the lifting of the ban into Saudi Arabia, which had already been advanced through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other sister agencies. Addressing Saudi Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Faisal Bin Ibraheem Al-Ghamidy, the NAHCON chairman appreciated the constant mutual support and cooperation the commission and indeed Nigeria had been enjoying from the Kingdom. Hassan further expressed gratitude to Saudi Arabian authorities for the efforts being made towards compensating families of the 2015 Hajj crane crash victims as promised. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Welcoming the delegation, Ambassador Al-Ghamidy, expressed the hope that the said flight suspension on Nigeria into Saudi Arabia would soon end and pledged his country’s support to Nigeria whenever necessary. Reacting to the issue of crane crash compensation, the Ambassador said his country was prepared to ensure the compensation was handed over to the heirs or their representatives soonest as long as the requirements are complied with. According to the statement, on the NAHCON chairman’s entourage were Commissioner of Operations, Alhaji Abdullahi Magaji Hardawa; Commissioner of Policy, Personnel Management and Finance, Alhaji Nura Hassan Yakassai; NAHCON’s Secretary to the Commission, Dr Rabi’u Abdullahi Kontagora and Special Assistant to the Chairman, Dr Danbaba Haruna. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!