Two top members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Lagos State Kunle Lawal popularly known as Kunle Poly and Mustapha Adekunle popularly known as Tafa Sego were on Monday arrested in connection with last weekend clash in Lagos Island. Recall that during the clash, no fewer than three persons suspected to be members of factional groups of the transport union were killed between last Thursday and Friday. It was further gathered that the clash occurred less than a week after the Lagos State Government invited the NURTW members for a peace parley. The NURTW chiefs had honoured the police invitation at the Rapid Response on Monday where they were detained. Nigerian Tribune gathered that the commander in charge of the RRS, Olayinka Egbeyemi, later transferred the two top NURTW members to the Zonal headquarters of the Zone 2 police formation in Onikan. A source at the RRS who pleaded anonymity confirmed the arrest of the duo. The source said: “They were invited in connection with the last weekend clashes on the Island of the state. “They both arrived here around past 4 O’clock and were briefly interrogated by our commander who later transferred them to Zone 2 Onikan.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Tribune Online gathered that the clash on the Island may not be unconnected to the battle for supremacy between the groups just as the general elections approach. While Kunle Poly is believed to lead a faction, Tafa Sego who is an ally of the state NURTW chairman, Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya popularly known as Oluomo leads another faction. Efforts to speak with the image-maker of the state police command, Adekunle Ajisebutu, failed as calls to his mobile phone number were unanswered at the time of filing this report. RRS on its verified Facebook page said it “arrested the two principal suspects in the constant clashes in Idumota and its environs which has intermittently crippled commercial activities in the area. “The arrest was effected today at a meeting where the two NURTW members along with some other stakeholders converged.” The unit also stated: “The latest clash which occurred last week Thursday reportedly led to the death of a victim while commercial activities were paralyzed in the area for some time until a joint team of police officers were deployed immediately to the area to restore peace.” RRS confirmed that “Kunle Poly and Sego are presently being transferred to Zone II, Onikan, Lagos.”  How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!