Men of the Bayelsa State Police Command have arrested a 38-year-old father, Baridap Needman for allegedly impregnating his biological 14-year-old daughter, along PDP road in Yenagoa, the State capital. The suspect, who hails from Ogani Wily Kaira Community in Ogoni in Rivers State, was arrested following a formal complaint from the State Gender Advocacy group, Gender Response Initiative Team (GRIT) led by Dise Ogbise Esq. According to Ogbise and Mrs Mary Accrah Pekeowei, the GRIT was tipped off by a concerned neighbour who noticed that the victim was five months pregnant and that the father was responsible for the pregnancy. It was gathered that the arrested father had been violating his daughter since the age of 7 years by fingering the girl but that things got worse when the victim’s mother died a few years ago. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Tribune Online further learnt that the accused father went on to replaced his deceased wife with his daughter on his matrimonial bed. It was said that while the 14-year-old girl who was in Junior Secondary School 3, was sleeping with the father on the bed, her two younger brothers were made to sleep on the floor. However, policemen at the Ekeki Police Station, where the case was reported, were shocked when the pregnant 14-year-old declared that she was in love with her accused father. The Chairperson of the GRIT, however, told newsmen that the advocacy group in collaboration with the Ministry of Women Affairs would offer psycho-social support to the victim and ensure that she is well taken care of until delivery. “Abortion is not an option and the two brothers have been handed to their family member for proper care. The Girl will be in government custody and she needs to go back to school. Her dream is to be a musician and we will encourage her” she explained. Also speaking, Mrs Mary Accrah Pekeowei, called on residents of the state to be vigilant and alert the GRIT and other gender advocacy groups in the state of any case of girl child violation or molestation in any form, “Members of the public should always speak up and reach out to relevant authorities.” How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!