About eight persons have been rescued by soldiers who engaged bandits in a gun battle in Unguwar Musa in Maranban Rido, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. A community leader in the area, Chief Joseph Sauri Garba, said the gun battle started around 12 am and lasted for several hours. “The bandits stormed our community around 12 am and kidnapped some members of our community,” he said. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a security update, confirmed the development. According to him, military authorities reported to the state government that troops engaged and repelled terrorists during operations in Chikun local government area. According to the statement, troops in the Maraban Rido general area of Chikun LGA responded to sounds of gunfire and swiftly mobilized towards the target location in Ungwan Musa. “The troops fought their way through an ambush, which they cleared aggressively as they approached the scene of the attack. “An intense firefight followed at the targeted building. The troops’ superior firepower eventually prevailed over the terrorists who escaped through a back fence with gunshot wounds, as confirmed by bloodstains that lined their exit. “The troops pursued the terrorists through their withdrawal route and in the process rescued eight persons who had initially been taken hostage. “The rescued persons are listed as Likita Igah, Nancy Likita, Genesis Likita, Wilson Likita, Mary Kalat, Victor Joel, Simon Musa Ali and Rufus Elisha. “One of the terrorists was killed by the troops during the operation,” the statement added.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!