The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), has urged the operatives of the newly re-launched joint security outfit codenamed OP-MESA and other security sister agencies not to “terrorise” members of the public, especially students in the war against “yahoo boys.” Tribune Online recalled that the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, had last Friday, declared that the state would launch an attack against kidnapping, terrorism, cultism, highway robbery and other criminal activities and make the state a safe haven for residents. Addressing a news conference on Sunday, the Chairman of NANS, Ogun Joint Campus Committee, Damilola Simeon, said the advice became imperative so as to avoid the repeat of the nationwide #ENDSARS protest. He, however, commended the state government for re-invigorating the security outfit, promising that NANS and Student Union Government (SUG), across the tertiary institutions in the state would collaborate with security agencies by providing intelligence information to them. “We are ready to provide the state government with volunteers from the student constituency who will serve as whittle blowers on our campuses. These volunteers will assist in giving first-hand intelligence to security agencies as regards activities on suspected internet fraudsters on our campuses. “To this end, the leadership of NANS in conjunction with Students’ Union Government (SUG) of all tertiary institutions in the state will be setting a security committee, tagged: “Student Campus Security Committee” to flush out criminally-minded students from our schools. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The committee will work with the newly created OP-MESA and other security agencies in the area of intelligence gathering to rid the state of cultism, kidnapping, banditry, internet fraud and other criminal activities. “We shall provide the needed support to these security agencies for them to carry out their duties. “The setting up of the committee also became imperative to serve as one of the machinery to checkmate and curtail the excesses of the OP-MESA and security agencies. “Like the saying goes: “Absolute power corrupt absolutely,” the experience of the nationwide #ENDSARS protest is still fresh in the minds of Nigerians and the scars left by police brutality are yet to heal, therefore, we will like to urge operatives of the OP-MESA to discharge their duty by not harassing and extorting law-abiding citizens, especially students. “Students will resist any attempt by operatives of the OP-MESA and any security agency for that matter to unduly harass, extort, punish, intimidate and oppress innocent and law-abiding students. “We want to sound a note of warning that, the setting of OP-MESA or financial crimes commission by the state is not a license for security operatives to unleash terror on law-abiding citizens. We won’t want a repeat of the ugly #ENDSARS experience. “We will not also tolerate undue invasion of our campuses and students’ residential areas by security operatives in the name of arresting criminals. “Inasmuch as we will not condole criminals nor harbour them, we urge security operatives to also liaise with the leadership of NANS and school managements whenever they are going to carry out the arrest of criminals on campuses and students’ residential, this we believe will help in preventing altercation between students and security agencies.” Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Don’t harass residents over war against ‘yahoo boys’, Ogun students to OP-MESA, others How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!