A moving train on Sunday crushed a Dangote Cement trailer and a commercial tricycle in Kano State. The incident occured on Obasanjo Road in Kano metropolis at about 11:30 am. An eyewitness who runs his business near the rail track said bystanders saw the trailer coming towards the rail line as the train was speeding but attempts to flag it down failed. The source stated that “when the driver of the trailer tried to cross the rail line, the train hit the vehicle and a tricycle at the same time.” However, at the time of filing this report, it could not be confirmed if anyone was killed in the accident. The source further disclosed that many people were rushed to the Murtala Muhammad Hospital, Kano from the scene of the accident.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!