Bola Ige was a native of Esa Oke, Osun State. Note that Esa Oke town was formerly part of old Oyo State. He spent up to 14 years of his childhood in Kaduna before he went to Ibadan to continue his education; he later headed to London where he studied law at the University College, London, after which he was called to the bar in London’s Inner Temple. Chief Bola Ige, one of the senior advocates of Nigeria, was well known as an activist, human rights fighter and for his oratory prowess. He wrote many books and articles. He was Attorney General of the Federation during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s term. He was about to take up a new position as a member of the United Nations International Law Commission when he was gunned down on 23rd December, 2001 in his abode in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State. It’s a shame and slap on the Nigerian government that we still cannot find the killers of Ige.  Clearly, the Nigerian government seems to be the source of inspiration to the criminals considering their sense of impunity and belief that crime pays. Some weeks ago, Nigerians grieved over the deaths of Adegoke Timothy and Sylvester Oromoni. They demanded justice. Sadly it appears to be far off.  What has happened to the case of the notorious kidnapper, Evans, who was apprehended in June, 2017? We need justice if peace and progress must be achieved.  Abdullateef Aderemi Fowewe, Ibadan YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…