Gombe State Police Command has arrested and paraded two Nigerians and four Beninoises over an attempt to commit fraud in the state. While parading the suspects at the Command Headquarters in Gombe on Friday, State Police Commissioner, Mr Ishola Babaitan gave the identity of the suspects as Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, 26 years from Gombe State; Jasper Jacob, 33 years from Taraba State; while Dafton Wakon Elysée, Hopko Adolphe, Jamal Salami and Emmanuel Haunukon are citizens of Benin Republic. The Police Commissioner said that, during the course of interrogation, the suspects claimed that they are into an online networking business called QNET using it on unsuspecting citizens of the state. According to him, it was established that the suspects are into Ponzi scheme to defraud unsuspecting members of the public saying that the Command had on 18th January 2022, at about 08:30 pm, received information that three Hummer buses brought some young men numbering about 109. Ishola Babaitan added, “Immediately Police operatives in synergy with DSS were dispatched to the scene and the people were invited to the DSS facility where they were interrogated.” “Later, two Nigerians mentioned above were transferred to the Police for discrete investigation and possible prosecution while the four Beninoises were handed over to the Nigeria Immigration Service, later on, the Nigeria Immigration Service transferred the four suspects to the Police,” the CP said. While advising the general public to be wary of those they transact business with to avoid being defrauded, he assured that all the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution. However, one of the suspects, Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu while talking to Journalists said that the business is not fraudulent because he registered the business in Benin Republic and has been doing it over there. Abdullahi Adamu said that he brought it to Nigeria for his people to benefit from the networking business adding that he is ready to go to court to defend himself. According to him, company products such as pieces of jewellery, wristwatches among other genuine products are bought from the company and given to marketers to sell and get their commission. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gombe Police parade 4  Gombe Police parade 4 Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gombe Police parade 4  Gombe Police parade 4 How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!