Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State has reiterated his commitment to returning the governorship of the state to the Southern Senatorial District of the state come 2023. Speaking at the Governor’s Lodge at the weekend, Ayade said his decision to return power to the South was based on morality. “During my campaign for the second term, I went to the South to support my second term bid and when l win I will support South to take over from me because, by a natural process, you are the next senatorial district to produce the governor,” Ayade explained. The governor insisted that the South had credible people with the capacity to be governor of the state, hence his resolve to support the district’s bid for the governorship. According to him, before he became governor, “there was no chance that the North was capable of credible candidates until l came on board. So there is no senatorial district that does not have the right candidates to be governor of the state”. Governor Ayade who decried the nature of democracy as currently being practiced, argued that there was the need to infuse the sensitivity of the African culture “because we inherited a brand of democracy which is not afrocentric, neither does it have the sensitivity of the African culture and morality”. “Democracy is so primitively blind that it reduces itself to numbers. The higher your population, the more you win. So there is nothing like balancing, there is no equity in democracy. There is no moral conscience. Democracy is blind to ethnicity, it is blind to religion, it is blind to fairness, it is repugnant to natural justice,” Governor Ayade bemoaned. He called for a paradigm shift, even as he flayed the lack of opportunities and inclusion for the disadvantaged in the polity. “So, if you are in the majority population, you can continue to rule forever because you have the higher voting strength. It denies the child of a poor man from one ethnic group who is well trained and has everything to lead the state or the country, from becoming governor or president because he is from an ethnic minority. “That is a failed society because the chance for my child and your child is differentiated not by their quality or character, not by their content or proficiency but by just a mere geographical place of birth,” he reiterated. Ayade, who dispelled the speculations that he is backtracking on his commitment to return power to the South said: “So to be able to balance that, as governor, I still uphold my declaration that my successor will come from the South and indeed, he would come from the South. And for emphasis, yes, he would come from the South”. The governor said he could not and would not play God by being specific on who his successor would be. According to him, “to make further statements as to where in the South, l will be acting God and to decide who in the South that will be succeeding me, l would also be acting God. My role is to be fair. “The South had taken a turn to produce a governor in Donald Duke, the Central had also produced a governor in Senator Liyel Imoke and the North has produced one in me. “So it is common sense that we must go back to the South for equity. Every zone should know that their turn would come one day. But to be blind and leave it to crude democracy which was not customised to reflect African sensitivity, that if l have had it, and no matter the circumstance, let another to have it,” he submitted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…