The governor of Edo State, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has assured the people of the state that his government would sustain ongoing reforms and programmes aimed at achieving a digital economy in the state, promising to provide fibre optic connectivity to all Edo communities to enhance access to the internet and expand the state’s digital economy. Obaseki, who spoke to journalists in Benin City recently, said his administration was committed to building physical and digital infrastructure, leveraging technology to drive sustainable growth and development in the state. The governor said that while the construction and rehabilitation of roads were currently ongoing across the 18 local government areas of the state, the state government would sustain investment in other infrastructure, including electricity and fibre connections. He said: “Our operation Light Up Edo is in full gear with the street-lighting project being rolled out in Benin City, Ekpoma and Auchi. “We are working with a private provider to connect all our 18 councils with fibre optic connection to enhance access to the internet and expand the digital economy across the state,” he said. Obaseki reassured that his administration’s huge investment in physical and digital infrastructure would position Edo State as a major commercial hub in Nigeria and West Africa. He noted that the government was nurturing a new generation of Edo youths that would dominate and conquer the world. Said he:”We are supporting our youths in entrepreneurship and innovation to seize the moment and build top-of-the-range capacity to compete with their peers globally. “As a government, we are recommitting ourselves to deepen growth across all sectors of the state and provide more opportunities for our people to realise their full potential.” “These we will do by leveraging the innate abilities of our people and providing them with the tools and enablement to dominate and conquer their world.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…