A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Alhaji Ahmed Adeniyi Raji, has advocated the immortalisation of late Olubadan of Ibadan Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji Aje Oguguniso 1, who died last Sunday Raji, in a statement made available to journalists on Tuesday, noted that Oba Adetunji was an epitome of good conduct and alluring characters worthy of emulations by younger ones, therefore, deserve to be immortalised. “While it was generally believed that the deceased was a successful being first as a businessman and later as a traditional ruler of Ibadanland, his leadership qualities were second to none in the history of Ibadan. “Kabiesi Olubadan was exemplary in peace-making and this was outstandingly demonstrated throughout his six years of reigning as Olubadan of Ibadanland. He deserves to be immortalised for what he represented.” Raji, however, joined other prominent personalities in Oyo State to sympathise with the Executive Governor of the State, Mr Seyi Makinde, the family of late Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Olubadan-in-Council and generality of people of Ibadanland over the death of the revered royal father. Meanwhile, The Akosin of Yorubaland and Aare Tayese, Chief Habeeb Okunola has identified the death of Olubadan, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji as a colossal loss not only to Ibadanland but the entire Yoruba Kingdom. While he identified Oba Adetunji as a celebrated royal father throughout the world by virtue of his conduct and approaches to developmental issues in Yorubaland and Nigeria as a whole, Okunola said the entire Yoruba Race is going to miss the fatherly roles and contributions of the prominent Oba. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…