The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has saluted members of the Nigerian Armed forces for their courage, loyalty, sacrifice and resilience in defending the dear nation, particularly in the face of resurged insecurity in the last six years. In a statement issued by  Debo Ologunagba, its National Publicity Secretary Saturday, the main opposition party acknowledged the bravery and patriotism of our gallant soldiers in the frontlines, “who despite the daunting challenges, daily put their lives on the line, with many paying the supreme price for the unity and security of our country.” The party observed that Remembrance Day presented the government the occasion for sober reflection to get more committed towards internal security and the fight against terrorism in our country, particularly in limiting the extent of avoidable danger which our military is exposed to daily. The PDP demanded that the government should take steps to provide the nation’s military with adequate equipment as well as improve on the welfare of troops to ensure effectiveness in their duty to the nation. “Our Party urges the government to ensure the wellbeing of the families of our fallen heroes who gave their lives for our nation. Their families and loved ones should not be allowed to continue to suffer,” the statement said. PDP urged Nigerians to continue to support and pray for the armed forces in their onerous task of protecting the country, adding that Nigerians should also continue to supplicate for the unity of the nation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!