The Anambra State sector of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), on Tuesday, said 23 persons die in auto crashes in the state in one month. It also said 33 road crashes were recorded within the period under review. The Sector Commander, Adeoye Irelewuyi, who disclosed this to Journalists adding that 72 persons sustained varying degrees of injury from the road crashes during the period. He said 473 persons were arrested for various offences, adding that they were all booked, while others were prosecuted. He, however, attributed the crashes to speed limit violation. He said, “We commenced ‘Operation Zero Crash Special Patrol’ on December 17, 2021, which ended on Jan. 15, 2022. This is part of strategies targeted at minimising road traffic crashes during the yuletide. “The number of deaths increased compared to previous years. While we recorded 23 deaths within the period, seven deaths were recorded in 2020 and 2021.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Irelewuyi said the state recorded a larger percentage of free traffic flow all through the period, especially on the Niger bridge, adding “We were able to achieve free flow of traffic because there was collaboration with various security agencies as well as the governments of Anambra and Delta states. “The Niger bridge traffic was flowing because we kept the bridge open. We had four toll trucks, two on both sides, which assisted in removing every obstruction as quickly as possible. “The command also resolved that direct supervision would be needed to implement whatever strategy that we may have. That informed the temporal relocation of the Sector Commander to the commercial city.” The FRSC boss advised motorists against speeding, adding that there was the need for motorists to be cautious while on the road to ensure they arrived safely at their destinations. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 23 die in Anambra road accident in one month ― FRSC FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari 23 die in Anambra road accident in one month ― FRSC How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!