The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Monday received the report of the Ekiti State Three-man Ad-hoc Delegate Ward Congress conducted last Saturday. It has also received petitions and complaints from stakeholders in Congress. According to a statement issued by Hon. Debo Ologunagba, its National Publicity Secretary, which disclosed this in Abuja, the NWC had given assurances that the report, as well as the petitions and complaints, will be comprehensively reviewed while all concerns raised will be carefully considered for amicable resolution in the overall interest of the Party. The NWC urged all governorship aspirants, critical stakeholders and teeming members of our Party in Ekiti State to remain calm, united and focused on the task ahead. Meanwhile, the PDP has postponed the Leaders meeting with Osun stakeholders earlier scheduled for Wednesday. The National Secretary of the party, Sen. Samuel Anyanwu disclosed this Monday, noting that a new date will be communicated. “The party regrets any inconvenience this postponement may cause invitees,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!