Resident Electoral Commissioner, Oyo State, Mr Mutiu Agboke has argued that there is a need for the National Assembly to make a law for the creation of a body solely saddled with the responsibility of registering political parties in Nigeria. Noting that the task of registering political parties alone was already enormous, let alone other electoral activities, Agboke flayed arguments that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should also be tasked with the duty of conducting local government elections. He argued that the INEC was already burdened with organizing, conducting, supervising elections, monitoring the organization and operation of political parties, monitoring political campaigns, among others, for persons in some quarters to contemplate that INEC, rather than States Independent Electoral Commissions (SIEC), conduct local government elections. Agboke flayed the argument that INEC conducting local government elections will guarantee fairness and credibility of elections. He said the bane of credible local government election in Nigeria is failure of opposition parties to participate actively in the election while some surreptitiously work for the ruling party. Agboke said, “INEC has enormous responsibilities; INEC carries out a lot of duties. What we are saying is that the lawmakers should even make a law that will create another body that will be saddled with the responsibility of registration of political parties because registration of parties alone is a whole lot of activities for INEC. So, if you are canvassing to include local government election, that will be too burdensome, too herculean a task and will not be in the interest of INEC to carry.” Speaking, Agboke described as stereotype notions that INEC conducting local government election guarantees fairness, credibility and accountability, stressing that the problem is weak opposition parties who chicken out in giving the ruling party a run for its money. Aside from weak opposition parties, Agboke also questioned the attitude and disposition of members of the public to understand the importance of their participating in local government elections and aligning with stipulated electoral rules. Agboke said: “It is a stereotype to assume that it is only when INEC conducts local government elections that you can see fairness, credibility and accountability. The argument is that it is the governor that is appointing members of the board of state independent electoral commission (SIEC) therefore there is that assumption that you cannot see a credible process in the election. That is not correct. “The same procedure of appointment of the Chairman and the board of the SIEC is the same thing that goes for the appointment of the Chairman, National Commissioner, Resident Electoral Commissioner of the INEC by Mr President. “Are we saying because all these people were appointed by Mr President therefore there cannot be any credible and fair electoral process? It is a question of people knowing their onions, in terms of understanding what local government election is all about; the participation level of the people; the need to carry the political parties along. “Of course, the ruling government will want to ensure that everything is overrun. But, what is the role of opposition parties in the local government election? Are they actively participating? Do they show interest? They don’t participate and they have to participate to give the ruling party the run for their money. “I remember, as a former member of Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission, I conducted two local government elections. We mobilized political parties. “That was even when we had more than 90 political parties in Nigeria. During these elections, I realized that it was only the poster of the candidate of the ruling party that I saw around. “Also, I realized that virtually all other opposition parties were surreptitiously working for the ruling party. So if the candidate of the ruling party wins the entire election, are you going to blame the commission for it? “Do you say because you want the election to be popular, credible, you fabricate results and give them to opposition parties? No. “Do your survey, during local government election, opposition parties don’t participate actively; they don’t campaign; they don’t paste posters. Even the one INEC conducts, do people trust us? Are there still no doubts? “So, it is not about INEC conducting or not. It is about individuals, our attitudes, all of us doing the right thing so that we can get the result we require. It is not about changing the driver of a vehicle, it is about ensuring we follow the rules of the game and we do not care whose ox is gored by applying the rules.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  INEC burdened, NASS should create another body to register political parties ― REC  INEC burdened, NASS should create another body to register political parties ― REC  INEC burdened, NASS should create another body to register political parties ― REC  INEC burdened, NASS should create another body to register political parties ― REC