A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. The suspect confessed to the act last Thursday at the press briefing by the Commissioner of Police in Zamfara State Command, Ayuba Elkanah. Speaking at the briefing, the police commissioner said that Aminu Baba was arrested with Abdulshakur Mohammed (20), Abdullahi (17) and Ahmad (14). He said that a matter was reported by one Ali Yakubu Aliyu at Central Police Station, Gusau, on December 12, 2021, at about 2pm, that his nine-year-old son, Ahmad Yakubu, was missing. “On receiving the report, police detectives swung into action and commenced a discreet investigation into the matter. “On 28th December, 2021 at about 0930hrs (9:30am), the police detectives received an intelligence report with regards to the earlier report that on same date at about 0900hrs (9am), a corpse was found in an uncompleted building at Barakallahu area Gusau, with its two hands and legs tied with rag and head covered with polythene bag. “Detectives proceeded to the scene and found the corpse with some of the body parts removed, and later evacuated it to the hospital for autopsy.” The incident was said to have prompted investigation, and on January 4, at about 2am, police detectives, acting on intelligence report, arrested four suspects. One of the suspects, Mohammed, had confessed during interrogation that he was the one who killed the missing nine-year-old boy, and that he was contracted by Baba to source for human parts, for which he paid N500,000. Mohammed added that the killing and dismemberment of the boy was the third time he would be working for Baba on getting the human parts he desired, and all his moves had been successful until he was arrested. On how the act was done, he said that he planned with Abdullahi and Ahmad, deceived the victim and took him to an uncompleted building where he killed him and removed his intestines, throat, manhood and two eyes. Mohammed added that he took the human parts to Baba and was paid N500,000 as initially agreed on. In his confession, Baba, a father of 19 children, disclosed that his desire for the  human parts was just to eat them, saying that the throat was the most delicious part he enjoyed. He added that he used to sell some of the parts. The Commissioner of Police said that the suspect’s revelations were assisting police investigation in arresting other members of his gang. Also, a rocket-propelled launcher was recovered by police tactical operatives led by the commanding officer of  42 PMF Squadron, Gusau. Elkanah said that the operatives were on extensive bush combing at some locations under Gummi, Bukkuyum and Maru Local Government Areas when bandits engaged them in a gun duel. “The police operatives successfully repelled the attack, forcing the hoodlums to retreat and escape into the forest with possible gunshot wounds. A rocket-propelled launcher and locally-fabricated gun belonging to the bandits were recovered at the scene,” the police boss said. Three suspects who allegedly vandalised and went away with copper wire belonging to the Electricity Distribution Company  were also arrested. The suspects included Usama Usman, Saifullahi Aminu and Zainab Aliyu. According to the police commissioner, the manager attached to PHCN office in Tsafe reported at Tsafe Divisional Headquarters that on December 28, 2021, at about 2am, some persons went to a transformer located at Emir’s Palace area in the local government area, vandalised it and removed its electric copper wire valued at N700,000. The report, he said, made the police to commence an investigation which led to the arrest of the suspects on January 1. “On interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and further mentioned their receiver who bought the stolen property at the rate of N97,000 only. Investigation is in progress, with a view to apprehending the receiver,” he stated further. Elkanah also spoke on a female citizen of Niger Republic, Aisha Ibrahim, who allegedly stole Aminu, a two-year-old child of her co-wife with an intent to sell him at a price. After her arrest, the suspect, who came from Danyade Kaya village in Maradi, Niger Republic, confessed to the act, but said that it was in retaliation of what her rival did to her by selling her own son too. She also added that the sale was meant to raise money for her day-to-day needs. Elkanah said that she would be handed over to Nigeria Immigration Service for necessary action. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!