Bandits have kidnapped 18 people, including women and young girls, while one person was reported to have been killed at Angwar Zalla in Udawa village of in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. According to a source, who pleaded for anonymity, the hoodlums stormed the village around 12:30 am, on Sunday. Confirming the abduction, Muhammed Umaru ‎ gave the name of the deceased as Bala Jaja. He said married women, adults and young ladies were among those abducted. He said the abductors are yet to contact any ‎member of the family hours after the abduction. “I just returned from the community and the bandits have not contacted the family members,” he said As of the time of filing the report, the police are yet to issue any statement over the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Bandits kidnap 18, kill one in Kaduna