Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has suspended the Commissioner for Lands and Survey, Hon. Emmanuel Uguru and his Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Education, Dr Obianuju Alo on a one-month working suspension for negligence and dereliction of duty. The governor gave the order in a statement signed by Secretary to the State Government and coordinating Commissioner, Dr Kenneth Ugbala on Friday. This suspension comes barely a few hours after the governor suspended his Principal secretary, Emmanuel Obasi over the same negligence and dereliction of duty. The statement reads, “Following the directive of His Excellency, the Governor of Ebonyi State Engr. David Nweze Umahi, FNSE, FNATE, the Commissioner for Lands and Survey, Chief Emmanuel Uguru and SSA to Governor on Education, Dr Obianuju Alo are hereby directed to proceed on one-month working suspension, with immediate effect. “The working suspension is as a result of negligence and dereliction of duty.” “All  concerned are requested to take note and ensure strict compliance to this directive.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Umahi suspends commissioner  Umahi suspends commissioner Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Umahi suspends commissioner  Umahi suspends commissioner