As we move towards the 2023 general elections, I urge Nigerians to choose its leaders wisely in all elections in order to put an end to the unending suffering that the average Nigerian had been subjected to over the years because the suffering being inflicted on Nigerians can only come to an end if the right set of leaders are elected. Things are not working in the country and the mandate to bring the required change is in our hands. Our economy is at the lowest ebb; there is serious insecurity in the country and this administration can no longer guarantee security of lives and properties in the country. As a democrat, I implore all Nigerians to collect their PVCs  if they are of voting age and shun money politics, it is important to get it right in choosing leaders at this crucial period because we cannot continue this way. In choosing leaders in 2023, patriotic Nigerians must ensure that the people they vote into power are highly cerebral, well educated, selfless and forthright. We need a patriot who has the capability and ability to govern. He must be honest, transparent, credible and diligent with the quality of a world class president. We desperately need leaders that can turn our economy around, turn our desert to land flowing with honey and milk. Political parties must scrutinise their candidates and present a credible and intelligent person who has the fear of God; is detribalised, devoid of nepotism, equipped with world current affairs, economics and politics and who will be servants and have the spiritual acumen to unite the country. Not a selfish leader that could easily be influenced by the spoils of office. Never again will Nigerians tolerate an old, sick or unhealthy, corrupt, indolent, religious fundamentalist as president. Nigeria’s next president should be a fearless leader, not necessarily a politician, he may be a technocrat or drawn from industrial sector who knows his unions and could not be bamboozled by political jobbers or clique. Such a president must be tolerant of public opinions, must be accommodating, has good name and character; must be ready to unite the country. Above all, he must possess good programmes that could give the country accelerated progress and development. Nigeria needs a president that will look inwards to develop the economy with local human and material resources and not one that would pile up foreign debts for future generations to pay; he must have the capacity and capability to solve security challenges without bordering whose ox is gored. Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, Lagos.