THE Presidency Tuesday observed that many political elite cannot wait for President Muhammadu Buhari to exit office. Making this declaration in a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media and Publicity), it maintained that such individuals are yearning for the days they were able to have access to public funds. The statement said if Buhari leaves office and whether his successor lives up to standard or not, the president’s legacy will be difficult to dismantle. The statement reads: “So many in the political elites of this country cannot wait for the president’s second term in office to end. “They yearn for a return to the ‘good old days’ of helping themselves to public funds with abandon, the easy export of ill-gotten money to foreign bank accounts, of acting without responsibility, accountability, or censure. The last thing they want is ‘another Buhari’. ALSO READ: How Buhari has run Nigeria in 6 years “Even though the president will stand down after the election of a successor next year – whether that successor lives up to the exacting standards and example he has set or not – his legacy is strong and will be peculiarly tough to dismantle. “Courts that hold those before it fairly and properly accountable – regardless of their wealth or lack of it; the successful repatriation of stolen funds from decades of export abroad and its use to fund social, unemployment, and welfare programmes for the poorest; reforms that have taken the steam out of centuries-long ethnic and tribal disputes – such as the farmer-herder clashes – long used to stoke ethnic and regional tensions by venial politicians for political advantage; and the protection of millions through an effective vaccine roll-out programme. These are just a tiny handful of the achievements of the president. “But, perhaps, his greatest achievement of all is to break the belief that presidents of Nigeria take the office and use it to enrich themselves and their accessories at the public’s expense. “That wicked spell is broken for good. And it has offended politicians everywhere. They thought the state owed to them while the people provided for the state. Instead, they have witnessed how, when the state owes them nothing, it provides for the people.” NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!