Movies are more than just a way of passing time. They are a store of culture and value, stories, myths and legends. It is also natural to assume that everyone has seen a movie that is popular or that we love. This week on WhatsApp Conversation, we ask respondents that movie they think everyone should have seen. Melody Bolarinwa Mulholland Drive a 2001 neo-noir mystery film written and directed by David Lynch and starring Naomi Watts, Laura Harring, Justin Theroux, Ann Miller, and Robert Forster. It tells the story of an aspiring actress named Betty Elms (Watts), newly arrived in Los Angeles, who meets and befriends an amnesiac woman (Harring) recovering from a car accident. The story follows several other vignettes and characters, including a Hollywood film director (Theroux).  Amos Oni Saving Private Ryan, The Matrix, Jurrasic Park, The Social Network, Gran Tarino, Shawshank Redemption, the Godfather, The Incredibles, Food Inc., 50/50, The Departed, Wallace and Gromit: The Wrong Trousers, Home Alone, Superbad All movies I’ve seen, loved, and think that they hold up or will hold up. Tried to include a lot of variance in style and movies that I think pushed boundaries or somehow made a positive impact on the industry. I believe film enthusiasts should be familiar with these films.  David Alabi Forgive me but I love the classics. I love any movie where the dialogue is either deep or snappy so that a second listening is as important as a second watch. The movie I would naturally assume everyone has seen is Do the Right Thing. It packs Spike Lee and a whole bunch of smart talkers. This film does not get the appreciation it deserves, but on a second or third watching, it shines.  Adejuwon Adeola Papillon – It shows the indomitability of the human spirit, how hardships can’t defeat a man that is determined to break free.  Kelvin Odunlami Star Wars, like why wouldn’t you have seen at least one! It is Star Wars and the series is timeless. The story itself never really loses its relevance – and that goes for the originals and the prequels. The movies work on any number of levels because there’s literally something for everyone.  Eddie Musa I saw Into The Spiderverse on the opening night, and I know this might not be the right mention for a lot of people given that it is not exactly the usual thing, but it’s a great movie. By far the best animated movie of 2018. It holds up still to this day.  Philip Azi I love The Art of War and its strategy. So, classic war movies have it for me. If I am to pick out one movie I assume everyone has seen, it would be Gallipoli, Australian’s look into world war I, starring Mel Gibson. The film was lauded by critics, completely swept Australian film awards, and remains one of the greatest war epics of all time.  Tosin Awoniyi Ayinla is the movie that I assumed everyone has seen; Ayinla is one of the best Nigerian films of  2021. Almost everything is right about Ayinla, from the script to the casting which is led by Lateef Adedimeji who played the character ‘Titular’ in the movie. The film is based on the life of Apala musician “Ayinla Yusuf” popularly known as “Ayinla Omowura” during his lifetime. People said that he was stabbed to death by his manager in a bar. The film featured the likes of; Omowunmi Dada, Bimbo Manuel, Ade Laoye,  Kunle Afolayan, Bimbo Ademoye and Mr Macaroni.  Next week, we gist about movies around the question -“Have you ever had reason to consider Nigerian education as a scam?” To be part of the next edition, send your response to 08133601345 on WhatsApp. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!