The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, ICAN, has approved full accreditation in B.Sc. Accounting programme of Kings University, Odeomu, Osun State. This was contained in a letter addressed to the University Chancellor, Pastor Matthew Ashimolowo signed by Funmi Otitoju on behalf of the ICAN Registrar/C.E.O. With this approval, graduates of the Accounting programme of Kings University are exempted from the first two stages (Foundation and Skills Levels), hence, would sit for only the final level of ICAN Professional Examination. The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Adenike Kuku, while speaking on the laudable feat remarked that, this buttresses the commitment of the University to provide the students with global standard education and career advancements which will empower them to thrive within the complex and competitive contemporary workplace. Kings University was recently ranked the 16th best Private University and 31st best among Nigeria’s Federal, State and Private Universities by the National Universities Commission in its 2021 Nigerian University System Ranking. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  ICAN approves full accreditation in B.SC Accounting of King’s University  ICAN approves full accreditation in B.SC Accounting of King’s University  ICAN approves full accreditation in B.SC Accounting of King’s University  ICAN approves full accreditation in B.SC Accounting of King’s University. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!