As the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares for its national convention, certain chieftains of the party in Jigawa State have demanded the cancellation of the congress conducted in the North West state. Five chieftains of the party in a petition addressed to Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni accused his Jigawa State counterpart, Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar of overbearing attitude and imposition of candidates in the ward, local and State Congresses conducted in the State. Nigerian Tribune checks revealed that the APC was yet to conduct  congresses in Zamfara, Anambra and Bayelsa States. The aggrieved chieftains in the petition dated  23rd December, 2021alleged that Governor Badaru Abubakar “singlehandedly championed the congresses that produced consensus nomination of Alhaji Aminu Sani Gumel as chairman of APC in Jigawa State, alongside 35 other executive council members.” The petition read in part: “Reference to the petition written dated 30th of October, 2021 and submitted to your good office; as stakeholders that participated actively in building APC in Jigawa state, we write to remind and bring the attention of your good office, the need to do justice to the crises bedevilling the APC in the state. “The leadership of APC in Jigawa state has been terrorized by Governor Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar Badaru who single-handedly championed the congresses that produced consensus nomination of Alhaji Aminu Sani Gumel as  chairman APC Jigawa State alongside 35 other Executive Council (EXCO) members.” The Jigawa APC stakeholders further maintained that due process and provisions of the APC  2014 Constitution,(as amended) were observed in the breach during the last October State Congress held in Jigawa State. “We, the undersigned and card-carrying members of APC been critical stakeholders of the party in Jigawa state observed with concern how due process and provisions of the constitution of our great party was strangled on 16th October, 2021 in the name of party state congress Jigawa state chapter. “We are aggrieved with what was termed as state congress that produced Alhaji Muhammadu Sani Gumel as chairman alongside 35 other Executive Council (EXCO) members in the state on the following grounds: “There was no genuine consensus that produced the current leadership of the state Executive council because not all stakeholders were carried along or contacted, no nomination forms were offered for sales to any member apart from those installed for consideration by Governor of the state Alhaji Muhammed Badaru Abubakar “There was no balanced consideration of interest groups that make up the party architecture in the state in sharing the leadership positions. In particular interest groups from defined ANPP, CPC, and AC were not considered, the governor hand-picked the Executive and handed over the party affairs in the state to a crop of people who are not known grass root members. “There was a deliberate denial of access to the venue of the congress, the petitioners and other members eligible to contest or attend the meeting were disallowed entrance to the venue by the order of the governor and was done deliberately in order to  deny aggrieved members from expressing their positions in a voice vote during the Congress as provided  by Article 20 of the APC Constitution 2014 (as amended).” Those who signed the petition include Alhaji Sani Ibrahim Taura, Barrister Hafizu Abubakar,  Alhaji Bala Idi Kazaure, Mutari Garba Garki and Saifullahi Muhammad Mudasshir.