Over 100,000 birds in poultry farms across Kaduna State is at the risk of contracting avian influenza (Bird Flu) It was confirmed that the disease is now in three Local Government Areas of the state. This was disclosed by the state Commissioner for Agriculture, Ibrahim Hussaini during a stakeholder meeting with the poultry Association. According to him, the disease is threatening an estimated population of 107, 807 birds, in farms in three local government areas of the state. He said the affected farms are located in Chikun, Igabi and Lere local government areas of the state. Represented by, the Director of Veterinary and Livestock Services, Zakariya Pakachi, he said tests were conducted by the National Research Veterinary Institute and were positive to highly pathogenic level. The three farms, he added, have been depopulated and decontaminated while the result from the fourth farm was being awaited. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital.  This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Over 100,000 birds at risk as bird flu hits Kaduna  Over 100,000 birds at risk as bird flu hits Kaduna  Over 100,000 birds at risk as bird flu hits Kaduna Over 100,000 birds at risk as bird flu hits Kaduna  Over 100,000 birds at risk as bird flu hits Kaduna. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!