Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, has condemned the attack on the Sino-Hydro Electric Power Dam in Zungeru by bandits, just as he urged security operatives to work towards rescuing the abducted Chinese nationals. Governor Bello, on Thursday, also expressed concern over the audacity of terrorists to attack the workers despite the presence of security personnel attached to the facility. He said the attack would cause some setbacks to the Zungeru power project, which the Federal Government had been making efforts to complete in record time. Governor Bello said: “This action [attack] might negatively affect the completion of the Zungeru Dam, which is of great significance to the country.” Meanwhile, the state police command has said those abducted during bandits’ attack on Kagara market in Rafi Local Government Area of the state last September had been released by their abductors. Spokesperson for the state police command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, stated this on Thursday in a press statement issued by him and made available to newsmen in Minna. On September 28, 2021, at about 5:30 p.m., bandits had attacked some villagers returning from Kagara market on Madaka road, where about 34 people were abducted. Abiodun said at about 6:00 p.m on Wednesday, the remaining 28 victims were released, as six of the victims had earlier been rescued on October 5, 2021. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…