The Academic Staff Union of the Nigerian Universities(asuu) Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife branch, says it has resolved to embarking on indefinite and comprehensive strike until the payment on the Earned Academic Allowance ( EAA) is carried out by the management of the institution. Chairman of the branch, Dr Adeola Egbedokun who made this known to newsmen via a statement in Osogbo,on Tuesday, also ordered that the union branch executive should commence the process of obtaining permission from the national secretariat to embark on total, indefinite, and comprehensive strike over the issue. Egbedokun further hinted that the union noted and reiterated the following: “That constitution of any committee to be set up by the university administration to “verify the correctness of all claims submitted by members of the academic staff of the university as regards the Earned Academic Allowance”, should be rejected since there was no such instruction in the accompanying documents from the NUC on EAA disbursement.” “That the ultimatum of Friday, 7th January, 2022 given to the university administration to pay EAA into the accounts of all deserving members of ASUU OAU expired without concrete action (payment of member’s EAA) from university administration.” “That the actions of the administration and the vice chancellor in particular, with regards to EAA disbursements, have always undermined the struggles of ASUU.” He, however, maintained that the, union took its decision based on the points listed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<