Zamfara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) recognised by the National headquarters of the party has commended the State Governor, Bello Mohammed Matawalle over his proactiveness against the recent bandit attacks in Anka and Bukkuyum local government areas of the state. The commendation was made on Wednesday by the state APC Chairman, Honourable Tukur Umar Danfulani at the state Secretariat where he received party supporters from Maradun and Bakura Local Governments who came on a solidarity visit to the party headquarters, in Gusau. He noted that the immediate visit by Governor Matawalle to the affected communities to commiserate with the families of the victims was quite commendable and a clear commitment of his APC-led administration to end banditry activities in the state. He further said a day before the incident at Anka and Bukkuyum, the governor also led an operation in the night at Tsafe Local Government where a large number of bandits were killed describing his action as unparallel and a total sacrifice to Zamfara citizens. He pledged his unalloyed support of the party to the governor’s fight against banditry and urged him to continue in that direction. Advising the governor to remain focused and not to be diverted by the unpatriotic opposition in the state who do not mean well for the people of the state, saying we are entirely behind the governor and the Almighty will surely make him succeed. The APC Chairman also called on the two visiting local government leaders to continue to support all government policies and programmes of governor Bello Matawalle especially with special prayers in his fight against banditry and other criminalities in the state. He also directed the APC members of the local governments to mobilise the electorates to go and register and get their PVC since INEC is still registering people. In their different remarks, Honourable Yahaya Chado Gora, Honourable Faruku Musa Dosara, Honourable Umar Maazu Faru and Alh Yakubu Gado all from Maradun as well as Alhaji Hassan Marafa Damri, Honourable Ahmad Muhd Bakura and Alhaji Alin Babe who are from Bakura said people at the grassroots are appreciative of the governor’s effort in addressing insecurity facing the state and the Northwest region. According to them, those challenging him are the enemies of the state engaged in blind opposition and never see good because of their envy and hatred of the state. They added that the security situation is now a regional concern rather than for Zamfara alone, but some unpatriotic politicians are trying to personalise or politise which is very dangerous. They further said that the efforts put in place by the APC government under the leadership of Governor Matawalle will soon bring an end to the insecurity noting that some parts of the state have started enjoying the gradual return of the peace in their areas following the recent military operation in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari.