Former Abia State Governor and Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu paid a visit to Senator representing Niger East and leading aspirant for the office of national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) Senator Sani Musa at the latter residence in Abuja on Sunday night. The APC national convention is expected to hold on February 26 according to the schedule of activities issued by the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee. Speaking with newsmen, the former Abia State Governor said he was on a solidarity visit to his colleague who just returned from a medical trip abroad. Kalu praised the chairmanship aspirant for being very proactive and in pursuance of ways to move the APC to electoral victories in all elections. The former Abia governor also restated his determination to seek the presidential ticket of his party, if zoned to the southern part of the country. Checks revealed that the two chieftains of the APC at their closed-door meeting discussed ways of improving the fortunes of the party, how to ensure a rancour-free forthcoming national convention of the party and agreed to work together for the electoral success of the APC at all levels in future elections. Senator Sani Musa expressed gratitude to the Chief Whip for the visit and thanked the former Abia State governor for his humility and sense of leadership. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital.  Kalu visits Musa, restates presidential aspiration  Kalu visits Musa, restates presidential aspiration  Kalu visits Musa, restates presidential aspiration  Kalu visits Musa, restates presidential aspiration How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!