IN December, 2021, I read in the news about an 18-year-old boy who had been arrested on three occasions for traffic robbery. The last arrest, at Ketu area of Lagos, was the third time. When he was returned from the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS),just a few weeks after his previous arrest by the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS), he resumed traffic robbery. Despite being convicted and sentenced to three-month imprisonment, he was not deterred. When the teenager was arrested the third time, he confessed that he went into robbery again to offset the debt he incurred after his release months ago. One wonders if the young boy’s reason for returning to crime justifies his action.Similarly, few days ago, men of the RRS arrested six suspected robbers for allegedly dispossessing accident victims of their belongings around Ojodu-Berger on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Four of the arrested suspects were said to be ex-convicts. Would it be said that these ex-convicts have become brutally insensitive and unrepentant? The truth is that the prison walls are not only meant to only deprive inmates their freedom, but they are to refine them. Nigerian prisons have been renamed correctional centres and as the name suggests, it should bring about a change in the life of anyone who ever visited there on the basis of conviction after freedom. It however hasn’t lived up to its expectations after rebranding. There should be a reform in the activities of NCS, not just in the name. There ought to be some lasting lessons an ex-convict learns as a result of corrective measures put in place by the custodian centres. It’s been over two years since the Nigeria Prison Service was changed to Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS), yet nothing really has changed about their modus operandi. The system of operation of NCS still remains same as the desired transformation many expected is yet to manifest with overcrowded prison facilities, underfeeding, large number of inmates awaiting trials among many other challenges which have been an albatross for decades. I strongly believe that apart from confining a convict to a place as punishment for his act, one other important reason why a prison exists is to allow self-rumination during lone moments. Yes, ‘criminals’ are confined to various correctional centres on grounds of gravity of offence to prevent occurrence of such action and for social reformation but there must be a striking difference in conduct and character when they leave the custody. If after regaining his freedom on completion of prison terms or by virtue of pardon from a constituted authority, the ex-convict fails to turn a new leave, then the correctional institution has had no impact on him. An offender released after satisfying due process as specified by law is not expected to return for same or any other offence again if he is well corrected during his stay. The NCS is saddled with the responsibility of reintegrating a pardoned or freed offender into the society for a better life and living.Rebranding of the NPS to NCS should include a commensurate change in their mandates. The objectives of NCS must be made public for assessment and evaluation of Correctional officers and their custodies.  In Nigeria, history is rich with records of jailbreaks in time past with some escapees being rearrested and others still at large. Most jailbreaks (successful or foiled) are usually characterised by infliction of injuries on inmates or wardens, death and loss of properties. There had been instances where some Nigerian prisons were attacked by hoodlums and in the process, freed inmates. If these prisoners who are under correction, have been well-refined, didn’t force their way out – a possibility of connivance with attackers not totally ruled out, then they won’t break-free illegally even when the opportunity pops up. I salute the courage of some prison escapees, who gladly and of their free will turned in themselves at police stations and correctional facility. It is a reflection of change of heart and the willingness to allow the law take its course for an eventual true freedom. Those on awaiting trial list, those sentenced to life imprisonment and others on death row could have their judgments reversed or relaxed as the case maybe someday if mercy locates them. Many have rotten and died in jail not because they were guilty or have been convicted, but because of the system of operation in Nigeria which is characterized by long years of trials and court sittings to determine their judgment.It is not all those in prison custody who are criminals because some are yet to be proven guilty of allegations against them. Generally, criminals are either labelled, ‘alleged’ or ‘convicted’ as the case may be. Allegations against an accused are however not formalised until they are proven guilty by a court of law. The Ministry of interior must do more to ensure that correctional facilities and institutions nationwide are well-equipped with security apparatus to forestall any jailbreak that may spring up from within and also prevent attack by any external arrangement. More importantis the need to put in place various programs that will positively alter and correctively reconfigure the attitude of those handling convicts in their custody. The services of counsellors and emotional intelligence experts must be engaged to regularly hold sessions with these prisoners. The roles and responsibilities of Nigerian correctional institutions should stretch beyond the confinements of the prison yards. Their duties should extend to post-prison life of any convict who once served terms or stayed for any period while awaiting trial before discharge and acquittal. Let me also state clearly here that while most people refer to correctional centre inmates as prisoners, not everyone remanded there is guilty of an offence. Many are innocent but were victims of circumstance. Others are awaiting trial. So, in addressing the challenges of the occupants of these centres, we must not cast aspersions and stigma on them. Many have abandoned and condemned ex-convicts to live lonely and die after they leave the correctional centre because it is assumed that they are no longer of use to themselves and the society again. They tag and label them as ‘never-do-well’. This ought not to be so as it may damage their mentality, psyche and self-esteem.If our correctional centres nationwide make significant impacts in the lives of ex-convicts, then their thinking faculties will be refined, not damaged. For full rehabilitation to be completed in the life of anyone who once went through a correctional custody, the government and other concerned authorities must provide an avenue or an enabling environment for an ex-convict not just to live again, but to live well and responsibly.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The concessionaires complained of poor cooperation from state governments who mostly delay in meeting their own part of the agreement, for instance in the area of land provision. Another major challenge they emphasised was the lack of narrow gauge rail lines in and out of the dry ports which they noted was important to make the operation of the ports efficient. They added that access to funds also remained a major issue even as banks and foreign investors make unreasonable demands for assets and bank bonds before the release of funds. The concessionaires unanimously stressed the need for the ports being constructed to be given the status of port of origin and destination and also to be registered with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) upon completion. In view of the delay in execution, the concessionaires stressed the need for a new agreement, pointing out that an agreement started in 2017 between them and the NSC but it was yet to be cleared by the Federal Ministry of Justice on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Transportation. They however commended the ICRC for its intervention and also appreciated the NSC for their support so far, noting that they were confident that under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, the contracts will be sorted out. The concessionaires pledged their commitment to see the concession to conclusion and the ports operational even as two of the concessionaires, Equatorial Marine Oil and Gas Ltd for the Katsina ports and Dala Inland Dry Port for the Kano Ports declared that their ports will commence operation before the third quarter of 2022. Managing Director of Equatorial Marine Oil and Gas Ltd, Mr Usman Iya Abbas, informed the ICRC team that the Funtua port was already at over 85 per cent completion and was ready to launch before the end of the second quarter of 2022. “We hope to commission this project before the end of the second quarter and the ports will become functional immediately. We are lucky to have great relationships in the shipping industry and with major shipping lines. Managing Director, Dala Inland Dry Port Ltd., Hon. Ahmed Rabiu, concessionaires of the Kano Inland Port also hinted that the construction of the container depot was already nearing completion. He assured that the company was working assiduously to ensure project completion and take off before the end of March 2022. On his part, ICRC’s Director of Contract Compliance Department, Dr Ewalefoh who chaired the technical session of the meeting assured the concessionaires of the continuous support of the Commission, charging them however to send a detailed update of the contract status reports to the ICRC. The Ag. Head, Media and Publicity of ICRC, Manji Yarling said he further enjoined the other four concessionaires who were yet to make remarkable progress in their contract execution to emulate the milestone recorded by the other two who were finalizing their constructions, so that the ports can yield the economic benefits for which the concessions were granted. While thanking the stakeholders for honouring the invitation of the ICRC, it was resolved that going forward, there will be periodic meetings to ensure that the projects are speedily completed.  100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!