SECURITY forces have informed the Kaduna State government that Kurmin Masara general area of Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of the state was attacked in the early hours of Sunday. According to the report, troops of the Nigerian Air Force Special Forces who responded to distress calls from the area were also ambush as they mobilised to the scene of the attack. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs in the state, Samuel Aruwan, on Sunday while confirming the attack, said as of 4:30 p.m, 11 residents had been confirmed killed while some sustained gunshot injuries. The victims confirmed killed are listed as Elizabeth Ayuba, Veronica Auta, Bege Daniel, Kephas Waje, Promise Jacob, Damaris Istifanus, Hauwa Joshua, Dogara Gambo, Lidia Ishaya, Michael Achi and Gabriel Michael. The statement disclosed that over 30 houses and properties were burnt in the attack. According to the statement, the injured had been evacuated for treatment, while search-and-rescue operation and pursuit of the attackers was already in progress on different fronts. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE It said the government of Kaduna State would make public further details as soon as they are received from security forces. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i, who has been in touch with the security forces and is receiving hourly briefings, expressed sadness at this report of the latest in a series of attacks in the area.” Meanwhile, eight persons were killed and several houses, shops, vehicles and motorcycles set ablaze when bandits attacked Garkogo community in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State last Saturday. It was gathered that those who survived the attack had fled the community for neighbouring areas, while some fled into the bush, which they considered safer. The Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security in the state, Hon Emmanuel Umar, confirmed the attack to newsmen on Sunday in Minna, the state capital. He said the state government and security agencies were already working to bring the situation under control, adding that a joint police and military patrol had been deployed in the community.