Given the recurrent trend of budget deficits and unattainable performance indices, some economists have lent to the call for the Federal Government of Nigeria to seek viable means of shoring up revenue and reduce the country’s reliance on non-oil revenue sources or such non-oil revenue sources as excise duties, taxes, etc. They stated this in a virtual seminar on ‘A reality check of 2022 FGN budget’, organised by the Department of Economics, Faculty of Economics and Management Sciences, University of Ibadan in collaboration with UI Eco Alumni Council. The lead presenter and Chief Executive Officer, Economic Associates, Dr Ayo Teriba, said the 2022 budget would remain a dream if plans are not put in place to mitigate shortfalls that was the case with previous budgets, especially that of 2021, since the realities of COVID-19 induced global economic slack and little revenue recoveries by the government remain the case. To achieve this, Dr Teriba said the Federal Government of Nigeria should begin to look at securing non-interest loans to build national assets that would in turn create employment opportunities for Nigerians and aid the growth of the economy. He maintained that the current trend of borrowing to make-up deficits and not using same to finance capital projects was tantamount to building castles in the air. “If we cannot coherently deploy a macroeconomic instrument as fundamental as an annual FGN spending plan, then we cannot be expected to hit any of our stability, growth, diversification, poverty reduction and employment policy targets. “If we cannot fund one year budget, then we cannot be expected to fund a five-year plan that promises to accelerate growth, diversify growth, and sustain development. “Annual spending plans must be funded in full to ensure that medium term plans do not continue to end up as attempts to build castles in the air,” Dr Teriba said. Dr Olumuyiwa Adedeji, who is the founder and CEO, 4MNT, USA, in his presentation said the global context and development underlying the design of the 2022 budget might lead to an unrealistic budget performance as such realities like the emergence of new COVID variants, pandemic-induced supply-demand mismatches, sustained price pressures and rising inflation expectations in advanced economies, still persist. Dr Adedeji said the implication for Nigeria is that “Access to foreign borrowing and global financial conditions have tightened; higher external borrowing costs; and lower-than-envisaged growth, reduced non-oil revenue and higher-than-planned financing.” He advised that the country’s fiscal policy must be agile and respond flexibly to emerging challenges. This, he said, could be achieved by controlling government expenditures at the preparation stage relative to execution. Dr Adedeji said “Policy makers could begin to consider expenditure rationalisation and priotisation, ensure social transfers become more targeted, consider the impact on credit to the private sector of higher domestic borrowing, recourse to Central Bank financing should be limited or avoided, given its potential implications for inflation and exchange rate. “The country actually needs to effectively and efficiently spend more on infrastructure, education and health as such increased spending is critical to higher, sustained and inclusive economic growth,” he said. The CEO, Preston Consults Limited and a discussant at the seminar, Dr Tochukwu Nwachukwu, noted that with increasing budgetary volume over the years, the government’s recurrent and capital expenditure have remained the same. This, he said, would hurt the economy as the government is not spending on income-yielding assets. The Head, Department of Economics, University of Ibadan, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju, in his presentation on ‘Budget deficit and structural issues in 2022 FGN budget’, maintained that budget deficits have increased Nigeria’s debt profile and that given the global financial outlook, it may be difficult for the government to access external loans. Prof Adenikinju said “In the past two years, the deficits have been magnified by COVID-19 and its challenges to domestic and global economies. Budget deficit has been magnified by revenue challenges. The plan by the government to drive revenue-GDP ratio from about seven per cent to 15 per cent by 2025 through various reforms including tax reforms; are the efforts progressive or regressive?” The seminar, which was moderated by the Dean, Faculty of Economics and Management Science, University of Ibadan, Prof. Omo Aregbenyen, had other economists and policy makers in attendance. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!