High Chief Lekan Balogun, the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, has commiserated with the Oyo State government, its people and the family of the late Olubadan of Ibadan Oba Saliu Adetunji, just as he called on the people of Ibadan to “discard with all unfounded rumours and insinuations capable of disturbing the peace of Ibadanland.” He made the call at a press briefing held at Mapo Hall Ibadan on Wednesday. He said, “It is no longer news that our much revered Kabiyesi, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso II the Olubadan of Ibadanland has joined his ancestors. It is my prayer that the Almighty God to whom all mortals shall return will accept his home call, forgive his sins and grant him Al-jannah Firdaous. May his gentle soul continue to rest in perfect peace.” He extolled the virtues of the late Olubadan, saying his good deeds would remain “indelible in the hearts of our people.” After commiserating with Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and the people of Ibadanland and Oyo State, he, however, told the people of Ibadan “to discard with all unfounded rumours and insinuations capable of disturbing the peace of Ibadanland, irrespective of the quarter from which such fake news emanate. “In line with the traditional practice of Ibadanland when an occasion like this arises, the Olubadan-in-Council has been up and doing liaising with the Oyo State Government to ensure that every necessary step to sustain the peace of the city is strictly followed.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 