The President of the Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association of Nigeria (FACAN), Dr Victor Iyama has disclosed that the Agricultural Commodity Value Chain Expansion Project will generate more than $100 billion of foreign exchange for the country and adequately support Nigeria’s economy. Speaking in Abuja, Iyama said “we shall be using this medium to improve Trade Information that shall bring the Agricultural Commodity sector into a formal and organized modern business that will attract the love of young Nigerians. “The project will have a systematic approach to job creation and building of wealth to at least two million Nigerians in the area of Logistics, Processing, Supply Chain Management, Agricultural Extension Services and Establishment of new Agricultural product aggregation. “We are currently implementing strategic partnership with the Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association (FACAN) which is an umbrella body of 75 National Agricultural Commodity Association. On his part, President of Information Marketing and Management (IMMI), Dr Ekenechukwu Aloefuna said “we shall be using this medium to improve Trade Information that shall bring the Agricultural Commodity sector into a formal and organized modern business that will attract the love of young Nigerians. “The project will have a systematic approach to job creation and building of wealth to at least two million Nigerians in the area of Logistics, Processing, Supply Chain Management, Agricultural Extension Services and Establishment of new Agricultural product aggregation. “We are currently implementing strategic partnership with the Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association (FACAN) which is an umbrella body of 75 National Agricultural Commodity Association,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Agric value chain expansion  Agric value chain expansion Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Agric value chain expansion  Agric value chain expansion 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!