The vacant stool of Orimolusi of Ijebu Igbo in Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State has been filled with the election of Prince Lawrence Jayeola Adebajo. Adebajo emerged as the Orimolusi-elect having polled six out of 10 votes during the election held at the secretariat of the local government, on Tuesday. He defeated his major contender, Prince Soliu Sadiku, who had four votes. Tribune Online gathered that the Orimolusi-elect, born 69 years ago, would succeed the late Oba Sani Adetayo, who joined his ancestors in May 1994. It will be recalled that 11 warrant chiefs were inaugurated by the Chairman of the Local Government, Mr Bolaji Odusanya, on the advice of the state Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs to commence the process of filling the stool. The warrant chiefs were headed by Professor Ademola Adedeji with Professors Yinka Balogun, Kola Balogun, Layi Ogunkoya, Chief Ademola Okusanya, Chief P. O. Omotara, Professor Bisi Ogunfowora, Mr. Olusegun Olusanya, Professors B. Obigbesan, Ayo Ogunye as members while Mr. Fatai Bolujo served as Secretary. They were given 14 days within inauguration to submit the report. However, the Ogun State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr Afolabi Afuape, in an interview with the Tribune Online, confirmed that a new Orimolusi of Ijebu Igbo has emerged. Afuape said he had not got detailed information on the development, adding that “someone has emerged as the Orimolusi of Ijebu Igbo.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…