Taraba State government has on Saturday chided the State Muslim Council for blackmailing Governor Darius Ishaku and his administration. Nigerian Tribune reports that the Taraba State Muslim Council had on Friday addressed a press conference in Jalingo, accusing Governor Ishaku and his administration of power-sharing bias against Muslims in the state. But in a swift reaction to the publications, the state Commissioner for Information and Reorientation, Danjuma Adamu, denied the allegations in a press conference on Saturday, described it as false, ridiculous and a blatant attempt to cause religious and political tension in the state. “The allegation of bias against Muslims in Taraba State made by the Muslim Council in the state against the administration of Governor Darius Ishaku at a press conference on Friday, January 21, 2022, in Jalingo is false, ridiculous and a blatant attempt to cause religious and political tension in the state. “First of all, the Muslims Council of Taraba State took the wrong step in channelling their complaints of the so-called marginalisation of Muslims in appointments. The option of a press conference which the council took to vent its complainants was clearly wrong, given the level of mutual respect and understanding enjoyed so far by the council and Governor Ishaku since the coming of the administration. “It is therefore surprising that the council would opt to embarrass the governor by calling a press conference instead of seeking audience with him to discuss the issues. “Governor Ishaku finds this step was taken by the council not only unfair and inappropriate but a repudiation of the existing mutual understanding and cooperation between him and the Muslim Council in the state. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “It is clear that the council bowed to the temptation and the desperation to win public sympathy for an obviously unfounded allegation by going to the press rather than seek audience with the governor to discuss the issues. “Government wishes to state categorically that the allegation of marginalisation of Muslims in Taraba State is false, unfounded and an attempt to distract the administration and cause religious and political tension in the state, especially now that the process for the nomination of candidates for election into political offices are about to start. “The Ishaku administration totally rejects this unpatriotic attempt and insists that it at no time, exhibited bias against any group in the state, whether religious or ethnic, in appointments and in the provision of amenities. Rather, it followed very strictly, constitutional provisions and all the other existing statutory guidelines in appointments to key positions in government,” the commissioner defended. According to the commissioner, Ishaku’s administration has been fair in the application of constitutional rules and ensured that sentiments played no role and assured all groups and the entire people of Taraba State that it remains committed to equity, justice and fairness in appointments and in the provision of amenities to the people. Just as It assured the people that the administration’s doors remain open to those with genuine complaints against decisions and actions of government to come forward and table them rather than resorting to blackmail to win public support and sympathy.   How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!