There was drama when some security officers in black suits and believed to be DSS officials denied a vehicle on Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s fleet access to the new Kawo bridge soon after President Muhammadu Buhari had mounted the bridge to commission it. The security personnel were reported to have exchanged blows as a result of the misunderstanding. An eyewitness, Lami Sadiq, told journalists that the confusion happened while President Buhari was commissioning the Kawo bridge in the heart of Kaduna city, on Thursday. “After Buhari’s return from Kafacnchan, he went to commission the Kawo bridge in Kaduna but an argument among security officers attached to the Buhari and those in Kaduna led to a fight. “It was because some officers of the Department of State Services (DSS) blocked the road to Kawo bridge soon after the president mounted the bridge. “Governor El-Rufai who had earlier alighted from his vehicle rode in the president’s convoy to the bridge. “The security agents who barred journalists and other dignitaries from accessing Kawo bridge blocked the road after El-Rufai and the president were on the bridge. “The president’s security aides stood their ground and this resulted in not just an altercation but exchange of blow. Later, the governor’s vehicle was allowed to be on the bridge.” Attempts by journalists to hear from the parties involved was unsuccessful. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, IFEDAYO OGUNYEMI, in this report, unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!