Bandits, on Saturday, released another set of 30 students and one Teacher in their captivity bringing the total of students and teachers so far released to 64 out of 94 students kidnapped in May 2021. In a press statement issued, on Sunday, signed by the Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Yahaya Sarki, and made available to Tribune Online stated that the bandits have released 30 students and one teacher who have hitter-to brought to Birnin-Kebbi the state capital. “It would be recalled that on Thursday, October 21, 2021, 30 students of the school were released and brought to Birnin-Kebbi to be reunited with their families. This is in addition to some who were released to their parents earlier,” the statement read. The statement did not state how many of the children are still in captivity along with their teachers. But thank all the security agencies and those who have helped in securing their release. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.