Former Lagos State governor, Senator Bola Tinubu, has informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to vie for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The party chieftain met with the president in his office on Monday at the presidential villa, Abuja, after which he told correspondents that he would definitely contest for the 2023 presidency. He refused to be drawn into the question of a potential race for the APC ticket between him and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo whose support groups have been mobilizing for his candidacy. Tinubu asserted that his ambition to be president of Nigeria had been a life-long ambition, noting that with what he did in Lagos in his time as governor, he has the capacity to rule Nigeria. On Osinbajo’s potential ambition, the APC national leader maintained that he would not discuss any individual. Asked why he would not remain a kingmaker rather than being the king, he said there is nothing that stops a kingmaker from becoming the king unless he has committed murder. He said: “I answer that with categorical yes. I’ve informed the President of my intention but I have not informed Nigerians yet. I’m still consulting. And I have no problem consulting. And I’ve noticed that a parameter of limitation to the extent of how many people will I consult. “You will soon hear, all you want to hear is the categorical declaration. You’ve gotten that truth from me that I have informed Mr. President of my ambition, I did not  expect more answers than that.” Details later…. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.(BREAKING): I’ve told Buhari I’ll contest for presidency in 2023, says Tinubu (BREAKING): I’ve told Buhari I’ll contest for presidency in 2023, says Tinubu