The Federal Capital Territory Internally Revenue Services (FCT-IRS) on Tuesday embarked on an aggressive campaign to inculcate tax-paying culture on both individuals and organisations. The Acting Chairman of FCT-IRS, Haruna Abdullahi, who led the roadshow, said awareness creation was one of the strategies the Service had adopted to hit its over N200 billion tax target in 2022. Abdullahi said, “The roadshow was to create an impression that FCT-IRS exists and also tell the public our roles and services we provide, and to also enlighten the public on their responsibilities to the country and FCT in particular. “We have realised that in the past years a lot of people have asked is there FCT-IRS. So it is our intention to now every January will be our tax enlightenment drive. “We want to let residents in Abuja know that they have the responsibilities to pay their taxes and also file their tax returns. They should know that March 31st is the deadline for filing tax returns, and there is a penalty for defaulting. “One way of achieving our tax target of over N200 billion is by the awareness we are creating today so that more people will file their taxes and that will affect our bottom line. “We are also taking our campaign to all the Area Councils and not just the city centre. The FCT-IRS is guided by personal income tax and the FCT tax Act”, he added. On his part, the Director of Tax Operation FCT -IRS, Mr Malik Tukur warned that tax evasion attracts sanctions. “In other climes, people are arrested for evading taxes. we want everyone to file their annual returns as and when due” Malik said. Also, the Director Human Resource, FCT IRS, Mr Mohammed Jada, who spoke on the efficiency drive of the Agency, stated that programmes have been designed for training and retraining of staff towards building their capacity for maximum service delivery. The deadline for filing Annual tax return for organisation, Employers or MDAs is 31 January 2022 while that of individual end on 31 March 2022. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!