The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Monday commenced enforcement of ‘No COVID-19 jab, no entry’ to all its office premises. Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Ikharo Attah, who led the enforcement team to all FCTA secretariats, departments and agencies, clarified that while no staff or visitors are being forced to take the vaccines, every individual must present either a vaccination card or a negative COVID-19 test result to gain access to the premises. He stated that considering the fact that the cases of Omicron variant were still surging, stringent measures have to be taken to protect staff and everyone that has anything to do with the administration. Attah noted that the administration has given staff enough time to choose between any of the options approved, to avoid the stress of being turned back at the gate. “We have given a full week for advocacy, and we got a van that went around announcing it. Circulars were also circulated in line with the one earlier issued out by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, that staff who are not vaccinated. “Those who say they don’t want to be vaccinated will get a negative test result. So if you bring your vaccination card or the negative test result, any of the two can suffice. “Even if you feel you should not be vaccinated, then get us a negative test result, not more than three days old, and that will get access. “People thought that we are not serious here, but we have come to let them know that when the ministers, Malam Muhammad Bello, Dr Ramatu Aliyu and the permanent secretary say something, they mean it,” he said. Meanwhile, there was also strict compliance at the offices of Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Central Area, Social Development Secretariat, Area 10, Garki, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, Wuse Zone 6 and others. It was also observed that vaccination seekers have increased at all the approved centres. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!