Damilola Otubanjo is a fashion enthusiast, entrepreneur, engineer, beauty queen and philanthropist. In this interview by KangMwa Gofwen, she speaks about her journey into politics and the level of participation of women and youths in the affairs of the country.  Why the shift from the beauty world to politics, what inspired your decision? Life is a journey, with many curves and turns. One leads to another and sometimes, some trips end with no inter penetrating spheres. I wear many hats, and I understand life is an act, so one must master role playing and playing each role in life with optimum seriousness. As a beauty queen I participated in community projects and somewhere within you realize that without the right platform Interventions can’t go as far as you would want them to go. I thrive in diversity. Shifting between roles gives me a rush that unlocks my creative path. I didn’t do a shift, I’m merely playing in multidimensional spheres. I knew a long time I would  be getting into politics, so it’s really not much of a shift but alignment to things I have been a part of. Doing the business of Fashion is my passion, volunteering to serve as a public servant is a  calling. I’m serving in both capacities and other areas of interest too.  Have you been in the political space or you’re just venturing in? I have had some experiences working in civil service, which largely is a prerequisite skill in governance. Every work of politicking is tied to civil service engagement, that structure understands the nitty-gritty and that would come in very handy as I proceed into public service. I  Also have friends and advicers who are seasoned politicians, leveraging their experience and support will go a long way in mitigating errors on the path.  Politics is perceived to be for men alone, how has the journey been for you? Politics isn’t for men alone. Women seldom participate because of the rigour and demand on the path. It is nothing a determined mind cannot do. So I do not see the limitations that are culturally imposed, I believe in the validity of my dreams and I’m willing to give the race a good shot. Besides, good governance has no age or gender  How fair would you say the political system has been to women? Not very well honestly, but women need to stop expecting inclusion without actively throwing their hat in the ring. Nobody owes you anything, you want something, you go ahead and get it. Simple. Will you have opposition or challenges? Absolutely! But it shouldn’t be a deterrent to pushing life’s goals. The human covering is nothing more than a Veil, and we are beyond skin, beyond gender, beyond culture, beyond race or creed. We are infinite beings pulsating with potentialities that can only be made manifest when we give life our all.  How would you judge the level of participation of women and youths in seeking electoral positions? The wave is gathering, awareness is becoming more evident, women are wakening up to realising more possibilities, we are not there yet but the journey has begun. With more encouragement by the male and giving chances to more women, more will emerge. Its a long journey, but we need active participation to drive a significant quota. I am doing my part, throwing my hat in the ring inspite of all uncertainties, such movement encourages others to get up and light their touch. We need also enough awareness and knowledge of the roles of young people in Nation building.  If the youths are given the opportunity to take on the leadership of this country, do you think they are ready and capable to run the country? Nobody is really ready, we all learn by experience. Young people need to be included as a requisite for a robust governance system that has all participatory, experience comes with trying, our system doesn’t have institutions that prepare the young for governance, most learn on the job. What’s important is to have the heart to serve and the discipline to do the needful. We have alot of vibrant youths, driving their various businesses, the same energy applied in striving in business can be applied to nation building. We have the seed of greatness, it only needs to be stoked.  This is your first attempt to contest for an electoral position, why green chambers and not any other? And which constituency? Yes this is my first attempt. Legistive role gives me the chance to be part of making laws, budget oversight , represent and protect the interests of my constituency members, these functions amongst many position me to make real tangible contribution in nation building. It gives me the platform to air my view as a Nigerian without limiting barriers. As a lawmaker, I can make movements to adjust moribund laws hampering the growth of the country. And I don’t  want to start too low on the rung of the ladder so real impact can be achieved. I am seeking to represent Ijebu North, Ijebu East and Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency.  You have a BSc in Physics and Electronics, and a degree in Renewable Energy Engineering but you’re tilted more towards fashion and beauty, what’s the inspiration? Often, when we set out to acquire degrees in higher institutions, it usually is informed by environmental influences, most of us go through life with no clear cut understanding of our path, we make decisions largely informed by our place of birth and the circumstances surrounding our upbringing. Because I have some level of intelligence, I was charted into the science path right from secondary school days, and that largely informs the type of degree to pursue in higher institutions. Often our passion and desires manifests after acquiring University degrees, when we are more ripen in age. That is not to say I’m not cut out for the sciences of life, on the contrary, my background in science and engineering has significantly improved on the work I’m currently doing. And I still do consultancy jobs in the field of engineering from time to time. So like I said earlier, its about role playing and understanding how to switch between roles.  Tell us about your humanitarian journey with your NGO, PinkDove Charitable Initiative. The PinkDove Charitable Initiative was established in 2008, its a charitable initiative that came to life preceeding my reign as a beauty queen. I had a pet project while wearing the crown that made significant impression on me while doing charity works. It was based on that, I Founded the PinkDove Charitable Initiative. The organisation has helped support young people in understanding life’s challenges, we trained and mentored young pupils in secondary schools and tertiary institutions. We’ve trained over 2000 pupils as peer educators, who’s gone ahead to influencing other young people as change agents and promoting sound values. I was trained by UNICEF during my service year and that experience propelled me to raising other young people even while I strive to understand my purpose in life.  You seem to have a lot on your table, how then do you balance all that with family responsibilities as a mother and wife? Yes I do have a lot on my plate. Juggling all can be overwhelming sincerely, however, we must make hey while the sun is still shining. I am naturally wired to multi task, it gets my energy flowing. I would however need to cut back sometimes, shut time briefly, meditate in isolation from time to time to reenergize. This is really the life I choose and I must live it with the awareness that it can be pretty demanding. Putting things in perspectives helps to shapen the outcome.  What are your final words to women and youths nursing ambitions such as yours? Dear woman, you are enough. You have latent potential fighting fuller expression. Don’t cower, don’t dumb down. All you need is within, expand your capacity to be more and serve to the fullness of your abilities, and same goes for the youth, all you can do is all you can do, and all you can do is enough, just make sure you do all you can do.