Borno State Commissioner of Police, Abdu Umar has denied the insinuation that the police want to hide the identity of the student who slit the throat of a junior student of Elkanemi College of Theology in the state. He said those spreading the rumour are being economical with the truth, saying, we can’t just rush and begin to make statements. Umar said, “as an arm of the law. We have to investigate before we make our findings known to the public, pointing out that, we have nothing to hide.” He said the name of the culprit is Ahmed Umar Goni a 16-year-old student of the Elkanemi College of Theology who inflicted a deep cut on one Jibrin Sadi Mato. Addressing newsmen at the Police headquarters, Maiduguri on Saturday, he said, “on 16th January 2022 at about 0930hrs, one Ibrahim Abdulkadir ‘m’, the CSO of El-Kanemi College of Islamic Theology Maiduguri, reported at Bulumkutu Division that, on 15th January 2022 at about 2200hrs, one Ahmed Umar Goni ‘m’ 16yrs old, an SSII student of the College, inflicted a deep cut on one Jibrin Sadi Mato ‘m’ 11yrs old a Pre-JSS student with a razor blade on his neck.” According to him,  the incident occurred at the College hostel, when the victim sustained a deep cut on the neck. He was subsequently admitted to the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital Intensive Care Unit where he’s been treated. The CP said the suspect had since been arrested and confessed to the police that he committed the act because he was not pleased being a boarding student. He added that he committed the act so that he would be sent out of the hostel. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Maiduguri throat incident  Maiduguri throat incident Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Maiduguri throat incident  Maiduguri throat incident How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!