THE International Telecommunications Union (ITU), the United Nations specialised agency for Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), driving global innovation in ICTs, has formed a new focus group to optimise the ‘testbeds’ for rolling out effective, sustainable fifth-generation (5G) infrastructure and services. With 5G poised to ramp up digital transformation worldwide, global research communities are joining forces to maximise their collective return on testbed investments. The new ITU Focus Group on ‘Testbeds federations for IMT-2020 and beyond, will respond to urgent needs to build a technical and business ecosystem for the sustainable development, evolution, and federation of testbeds, which is the physical and virtual laboratories and testing spaces for new and emerging technologies. Announcing the initiative in a recent statement, Mr Houlin Zhao, ITU Secretary-General, said: “The accelerating digital transformation of our economies relies on the combination of increasingly complex technologies in fields from 5G and the Internet of Things to big data, cloud computing and machine learning. This focus group aims to build new partnerships to help test labs making mutually reinforcing contributions to innovation, to everyone’s benefit.” In Nigeria, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), had on December 13, 2021, auctioned two lots in the 3.5GHz spectrum band to MTN Networks Limited and Mafab Communications Limited, to enable them rollout 5G technology services in Nigeria in 2022. One week after MTN was announced as one of the winners of the 5G licence, through the 3.5GHz spectrum auction, MTN finalised arrangements to launch its RCS Business Messaging (RBM) Services in partnership with Google and Dotgo. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…