House of Representatives member for Kaltungo/Shongom constituency in Gombe, Hon. Simon Karu has suggested that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Minister of Works and Housing, Raji Fashola or Speaker Femi Gbajabiamiala should get the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket for 2023 elections. Karu, in an interview, said any of them will move the country forward should power shift to the South. The House of Reps member said: “If power shift favours the south, it is most likely the southwest because of its large followership within the ruling party. “I think there are three outstanding national figures that fit into the race undoubtedly with excellent qualities. Prof Yemi Osinbajo, Fashola and Speaker Gbajabiamila are good enough. “These men exude outstanding qualities as national figures with exceptional character for excellence. Their antecedents and current status have remarkable results that distinguish them from others in the south. “I have no doubt that these three personalities have the potential and capacity to win any national election and do exceptionally great.” On the presidential ambition of National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Karu said: “Well, Tinubu has run his days and to the best of the south, he remains undoubtedly a hero, but time and season is important for every hero, “zamani goma (10) sarki goma(10)” this simply implies every king with his season. Tinubu is no longer a king and kingmakers have no place as kings.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… APC presidential ticket  APC presidential ticket Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… APC presidential ticket  APC presidential ticket How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!