AT the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) On Thursday, equities trading sustained its positive run with benchmark index closing higher by 0.3 per cent. At the local bourse, demand for WAPCO and FBN Holdings stocks spurred a third consecutive gain in the market having appreciated by 3.1 per cent and 1.8 per cent respectively. Precisely, the All-Share Index (ASI) notched a 0.3 per cent increase to 43,607.94 basis points. Accordingly, the Year-to-Date return increased to +2.1 per cent. Investors, thus earned N71.7 billion as the market capitalisation settled at N23.5 trillion as against an opening of N23.4 trillion. As measured by market breadth, market sentiment was positive as 23 tickers gained relative to 12 losers. BUA Foods appreciated by 10.0 per cent and Academy Press increased by 9.1 per cent to top the gainers’ list, while NEM Insurance and FTN Cocoa shed 7.8 per cent and 7.7 per cent, recording the most significant losses of the day. Sectoral performance was broadly negative, as the Insurance, Oil & Gas, Industrial Goods and Consumer Goods indices printed losses by 1.4 per cent, 0.8 per cent,0.4 per cent and 0.1 per cent respectively; while the Banking index was the sole gainer with 0.4 per cent increase recorded against the index. Activities at the local bourse remained unimpressive as the total volume of trades decreased by 85.9 per cent to 174.61 million units, valued at N2.13 billion, and exchanged in 3,715 deals. FBN Holdings was the most traded stock by volume at 27.09 million units, while newly listed BUA Foods was the most traded stock by value at N544.69 million. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…