The Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) has dissociated itself from online advertisements announcing vacancies for its Train 7 Project positions. The company warned the general public that the said advertisement or any others along the same lines are false, fraudulent and calculated to mislead unsuspecting members of the public. A press statement by Anne Marrie- Palmer-Ikuku stated that neither NLNG nor its contractors have commenced recruiting for the Train 7 Project, for which construction activities are yet to commence. The statement reads in part; “The attention of Nigeria LNG Limited (‘NLNG’) has been drawn to an online advertisement announcing vacancies for its Train 7 Project positions. The advertisement goes further to request that interested persons join WhatsApp groups created for the purpose of progressing such employment. “Members of the public are accordingly urged to exercise due diligence and caution at all times in evaluating and verifying any claims made by persons purporting to act on behalf of NLNG, and are expressly advised not to make any financial commitment in relation to any such claims as neither NLNG nor its contractors for the Train 7 Project – a consortium comprising Saipem, Chiyoda and Daewoo (‘SCD JV’) which is exclusively responsible for managing all aspects of the Train 7 Projects – will make such demands.” It advised individuals and companies interested in pursuing opportunities on the Train 7 Project are once again encouraged to visit the contractor’s website for the correct details on how to do business with the consortium. NLNG expressly disclaimed any liability for any losses incurred by any person(s) as a result of reliance on such fraudulent advertisements, communications, e-mails or publications. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<