Kwara State command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on Friday said that the corps has concluded its investigations in the allegation of cattle rustling and breach of contract levelled against one Ruwa Mojuba. In a statement by the public relations officer of the NSCDC in the state, Babawale Afolabi, in Ilorin on Friday, he said that the suspect would soon appear in court. It will recalled that in September 2021, one Umar Abubakar of Budo Alhaji village in Oyo state employed the service of the suspect, Ruwa Mojuba, to tend his herd of cattle for him.The suspect was to tend the cattle for seven months on monthly salary of N10,000. “But the suspect reared the cattle for only one month as he ran away with 17 of the cows and relocated with the rustle cows to Kura village in Kaiama local government area of Kwara State. “The matter was first reported by the owner of the cows at our divisional office in Igbaja before the matter was transfered to the Intelligence and Investigations department at the State Command where painstaking investigations were carried out after the arrest of suspect.” “Findings revealed that the suspect has sold three of the stolen cows valued at N600,000 while the remaining 14 cows were recovered from him.” The command’s PRO also said that the Commandant in the state, Makinde Iskil Ayinla, has been briefed of the latest development and has ordered that the suspect be charged to court immediately. “Yes, we have concluded our investigations and the Commandant has been briefed and has subsequently ordered the arraignment of the suspect in the court of law.” In the meantime, the suspect will be charged to court by the NSCDC on Tuesday next week. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NSCDC prosecutes cattle rustler  NSCDC prosecutes cattle rustler Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NSCDC prosecutes cattle rustler  NSCDC prosecutes cattle rustler How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!