The Oyo State Ministry of Youth and Sports in partnership with the German Academic Exchange Service has announced an 8-week DAAD Fellowship Mentorship Bootcamp for Oyo State indigenes all over the world to get scholarship opportunities. Applications for the fellowship is open to Oyo State indigenes home and abroad who are currently enrolled in a Postgraduate program anywhere in the world, except Germany. According to a statement signed and released to journalists by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Seun Fakorede, “the German Academic Exchange Service, or DAAD, is the largest German support organization in the field of international academic cooperation. He added that “partnering with the Oyo State Ministry of Youth & Sports, facilitators from DAAD will be mentoring 100 postgraduate scholars on how to apply and get awarded for the DAAD Fellowship.” “Among other things, the benefits of the DAAD Fellowship covers full payment of expenses for the fellowship in Germany, monthly stipends, visa-free access to more than 26 countries during the fellowship, as well as post-DAAD Fellowship opportunities and benefits. Elaborating on the timeframe for the application, Fakorede explained that the “Applications are open until 10th February.” Here’s the link to register for the fellowship: bit.ly/OYOSTATEDAAD YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favorite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation.