Amidst the growing speculation of tenure elongation by the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning led by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, a chieftain of the party in Kogi State, Prince Mohammed Audu, has said he was convinced the interim leadership meant well for the party and would keep to the Convention date. The former Governorship candidate in Kogi State who advised Governor Buni not to lose focus urged him to continue on the trajectory to reposition the governing party as he has been doing. Prince Audu gave the admonition when he paid a courtesy visit to the Caretaker Committee Chairman at the latter Abuja residence. Certain groups within the APC have accused the interim national leadership of scheming to extend its tenure. The Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu LukmanM in a statement on Monday challenged the Caretaker Committee to give a definite date and venue of the Convention expected to hold next month While declaring his support for the APC leadership at centre and in the state, the party chieftain said Alhaji Buni has done well both as a serving governor in Yobe state and as the chairman of the ruling party. Prince Audu said: “For a serving governor to be dedicated in such a way that governance in Yobe State does not suffer and the responsibility of repositioning our great party is taking good shape should be commended by all and sundry. “I have, however, come to show appreciation and also lend my support to his leadership.” Audu support was coming on the heels of a similar commendation letter to the Chairman APC CECPC by former Chief of Staff in Edo State and chieftain of the party, Honourable Patrick Obahiagbon. He advised party men and women to be prepared at all times to subordinate their individual aspirations to the largest interest of the ruling party. “The party interest is more paramount than parochial and self-centred agitations from a microscopic few,” he said. “The facts are indubitably too plain to be contested Your Excellency, that our great party was largely fractious and tottering at its perilous precipice and brinks when both destiny and history beckoned on you to provide durable leadership for us all. “It’s the considered opinion of the majority of our party members that Your Excellency has not just only steered the party away from avoidable cataracts and icebergs but that you have also enviably returned our party to its winning ways and glorious path,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Despite challenges, APC chieftain, Audu, says Buni will keep to Convention date