At least two people were reportedly shot dead by some gunmen suspected to be terrorists at Okeluse Community in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State on Sunday evening. The victims of the attack include the owner of a petrol station in the community and his attendant who were shot dead at close range. According to an eyewitness, the gunmen stormed the community at about 6pm and opened fire on the deceased. He alleged that the suspected gunmen who have been terrorising the communities in the local government for some few months are Fulani herdsmen Confirming the attack and the killing, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Funmi Odunlami confirmed the incident but said she would release the details later as soon as she got it. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…  Gunmen attack, kill two in Ondo Community  Gunmen attack, kill two in Ondo Community  Gunmen attack, kill two in Ondo Community  Gunmen attack, kill two in Ondo Community Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!