Following the signing into law, the bill to upgrade Adeyemi College of Education (ACEONDO) from its present status to Adeyemi University of Education by President Muhammadu Buhari, two lawmakers representing the state at the Senate and House of Representatives on Tuesday, bickered over the development. While supporters of the House of Representatives member,  Hon. Abiola Makinde claimed responsibility for the upgrade of the institution to university status, the Media Adviser to Senator attributed the upgrade to the efforts of Senator Ayo Akinyelure. The supporters of Makinde commended the lawmaker representing Ondo East and West federal constituency for the new status of the institution, which is located in his hometown, Ondo. Speaking, one of his supporters, Tiamiyu Luqman said “Adeyemi Federal University confirmed, thanks to  Hon. Biola Makinde.” Roseline Abiola in her remark also said “We are proud of you, sir, thanks so much for your love and concern for the Ekinmoguns. The sky is the beginning of your success, you are a leader indeed” But Senator Akinyelure through his Special Adviser of Media, Mr Charles Akinwon, maintained that the upgrade of ACE to university status was attributable to his efforts at the Senate chamber. He however said, “the Akinyelure, Senator representing Ondo Central in the Upper Chamber and Senate Committee Chairman on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions, will not join issue with anyone on the above subject matter, it should be put on record that it was the Senator that initiated and concluded the passage of the Bill in the Upper Legislative Chamber. “However, the achievement of this important Bill is for the benefit of Ondo Central in particular and Ondo State in general and that is the greatest joy of the Senator.” President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law, the bill to upgrade Adeyemi College of Education (ACEONDO) from its present status to Adeyemi University of Education. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…