The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq has condemned the recent killings in Zamfara State, describing the banditry as horrific. The Minister in a statement issued by her Special Assistant on Media, Nneka Ikem Anibeze, stated this following the invasion of five communities and killing of over 200 people in Anka and Bukkuyum local government areas of the state. “This is horrific and tragic. Over 200 persons were buried today due to the invasion by bandits. “We are very saddened by this incessant invasion and killings by bandits and we also worried about the displaced persons who are fleeing in their hundreds from their communities, especially the women and children. “We sympathize with the government and people of Zamfara state in this trying period and condole with the families of the dead. We pray for the repose of their souls and that peace returns to the state and soon as possible”. To this end, the Minister also directed that relief materials be sent to Internally Displaced persons in the state to cushion the effects of the sudden displacement. According to her, more than 10,000 victims have also been rendered homeless after their homes were razed by the bandits while scores are still missing. More than 500 bandits on motorcycles reportedly attacked five villages and razed their homes after killing over two hundred people. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…