AS part of activities marking the 50th year of leaving the school, Fiditi Grammar School Old Students Association (FIGSOSA) set of 1967/1971 has donated solar system batteries worth N1.6 million to the school that could power its computer laboratory centre effectively. The donation presented by Deacon Richard Ogunmola was inaugurated in the presence of the principal of the school, Mrs Adeyemo Rashidat, members of staff, students of the school and old students on Friday, January 14, 2022. At the event, the National President of the association, a neurologist, Professor Adesola Ogunniyi, commended the set and noted that such gesture from the old students would spur others to give back to their alma mater as well. “If there is improved municipal electricity power supply, the provided batteries will serve as a fallback and that would ensure a continuous power supply for the school,” he said. As part of the golden jubilee celebration, a career talk was also organised for the senior secondary school three (SSS 3) students at the school hall. The guest speaker, who is also the National Secretary of FIGSOSA, Mr Akinola Akinojo, charged the senior students to work very hard if they desire good success. He also advised them to choose their career wisely and always move with friends with positive thoughts. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!