THERE is confusion over the meeting of the Forum of governors on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) expected to hold on Sunday in Abuja. Plateau State governor, Si- mon Lalong, at the end of a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, told Villa correspondents that the Progressive Governors Forum would be meeting with President Buhari on Sunday for further briefing on the scheduled February Convention. Governor Lalong expressed the confidence that the governors were determined to ensure that the convention holds as scheduled amidst speculation that certain APC governors were smarting for the extension of the tenure of the APC Caretaker/Extraodinary Convention Planning Committee under the leadership of the Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni. A source at the secretariat of the PGF in Abuja, however, told Sunday Tribune in confidence that he was not aware of any meeting of the Governors Forum. Checks revealed that the APC governors usually hold their meeting at the Kebbi State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, where they take positions on crucial party matters before proceeding to the Presidential Villa to meet with President Buhari. Incidentally the Kebbi State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, is the chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum. The Sunday Tribune source who did not foreclose a meeting of few of the governors, however, maintained that he was not aware of a meeting of all the APC Governors. An aide to one of the APC governors told Sunday Tribune in confidence that his principal was not aware of any meeting in Abuja on Sunday. He said: “Maybe some of them are meeting like they have always done under the guise that they are taking a decision on behalf of all the governors. But I am not aware of any scheduled trip to Abuja tomorrow (Sunday).” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING!