The Aminu Dabo College of Health Sciences and Technology, Kano has expelled 12 students over examination malpractice. This was just as the institution also disclosed that 13 other 200-level students of the college were rusticated for various offences related to indiscipline during
examinations. This was contained in a statement by the institution’s Head of Public Relations and Publicity, Abdullahi Usman, and made available to pressmen in the state. The statement indicated that the affected students were caught red-handed engaging in examination malpractices and misconduct during the 2021/2020 second semester exams contrary to the college’s standing order and code of conduct. According to the statement, “the measures were taken on the errant students by the college authority in accordance with the provisions in the students’ handbook following the recommendations of the disciplinary committee.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…