South Africa-based record label, Bodman Entertainment Limited, has announced that one of the finalists of the 2019 Big Brother Nigeria reality show, Omashola Oburoh, has joined the label. The label founder, entertainment personality, and entrepreneur, Olabode Tawose, popularly known as Bodman made this announcement in a press release issued to the media over the weekend. Omashola Kola Oburoh is a Nigerian born South Africa based entrepreneur whose experience is in a variety of industries such as housing industry and entertainment industry. Omashola who began his career as a model manages a nightclub called Sumo night club and is the owner of his own property company that specialises in Airbnb rentals. Using his entrepreneurial skills, Omashola always produces the best stays for his productive high-level clients both in the Airbnb business and in the nightclub. More than his role as a nightclub manager and property dealer, he has also appeared in a highly rated Big Brother Nigeria reality TV show, where he made it to the top 5 out of 20 contestants. He is a highly valued, entertaining and respected human being hence his long stay in the reality show. Moreover, Omashola is a highly multitalented individual as he is also an actor, model and musician with some of his recent projects being only an internet search away. He has appeared in movies and recently released a hit song “Do the thing.” Omashola is passionate about helping people around him and aspires to one day begin his own charity organisation both in South Africa and Nigeria. His long term goals are to be one of the most powerful names in the industry of acting and music, which will be of impact to Bodman Entertainment. He aspires to be the best that ever did it in the entertainment industry and is surely working hard to ensure that comes to pass. Bodman Entertainment is a well-established label set up purposely to scout for new and fresh talents and catapult them into the limelight. Founded by an entertainment personality, Olabode Tawose also known as Bodman with an aptitude for leadership and a passion for providing excellent service in each and every one of his business endeavours, the company has continued to grow and become the preferred hub for entertainment. Influenced by Don Jazzy, Olamide, and other aces in the industry, Bodman has the ability to spot a talent that brings about a new type of vibe and groom them well. With the right team, networking, knocking on doors of every potential opportunity and sometimes taking risks by investing a lot of money, Bodman and his company are waxing stronger. Bodman’s major project, titled Nigerian-South African featured was born out of his idea to bring the two countries together on one album through the collaboration of Nigerian and South African artistes. Aside from music, Bodman has other projects in the pipelines under his company. Just to mention a few, I am also working on launching my film production company called Bodman & Sons Films Production, making short films, and eventually growing into bigger movie projects. and an annual club tour. In recent times, Bodman has worked with popular artistes including Magnito Fresh Out, Idowest, Trod (Dagrin’s younger brother), Omashola (Ex BBN housemate), Scoobynero, Glenmena, Earl W Green, SK6, Spiro Beats, MorningStar, Raps, Lin Sensie and many more. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Bodman Entertainment signs BBNaija’s Omashola Bodman Entertainment signs BBNaija’s Omashola