The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET), has appealed to Nigerians to avoid leaving humans or animals in the car, especially young children as it forecast extreme temperature between the 6th and 7th of January, 2022. In an advisory circular issued, the Agency also urged for plenty of water intake, wearing of light and bright clothing, and to stay in the shade such as trees if outside the house. According to the two-day forecast, on day one, January 6th, parts of Niger and Kwara are expected to experience temperature greater than 40°C while Parts of Kebbi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba, and Adamawa in the north are expected to experience temperatures greater than 35°C and less than 40°C. “Parts of Niger, Kwara, Kogi, FCT, Nasarawa, and Benue in the north-central are also expected to experience temperatures greater than 35°C and less than 40°C. Similarly, the entire south (except Lagos) is expected to be in the same temperature range”. On day two, the 7th of January, parts of Niger and Kwara are expected to experience temperatures greater than 40°C, and Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, and Taraba are expected to record temperature between 35°C and 40°C. “The same is expected over parts of Niger, Kwara, Kogi, FCT, Nasarawa, Benue, and Kogi in the north-central. The south (except Lagos, Ekiti, and Ondo) is expected to be similar temperature range”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…