It was a period of rejoicing for the family of the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe, last week when family and friends from far and wide, defied all circumstances to converge on the palace to celebrate the 70th birthday of the queen, Eyesorun Margaret Abosede  Adejugbe. ‘Yomi Ayeleso, who was at the event reports that it was a period of thanksgiving and giving back. The grounds of the palace of the traditional ruler of Ekiti, the capital city of Ekiti state, Oba Rufus Adejugbe, the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, was last Thursday filled with dignitaries from all walks of life, including children, family members and well-wishers who came to celebrate the 70th birthday of an Amazon, the wife of the first class king and queen of Ado Ekiti, Eyesorun Margaret Abosede  Adejugbe The chairman of the state traditional council and Onisan of Isan-Ekiti, Oba Gabriel Adejuwon led other Obas to the colorful event, while the deputy governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi; wife of the governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi; former Secretary to the State Government and governorship aspirant, Biodun Oyebanji and Yeye Modupe Babalola, wife of Aare Afe Babalola, the legal icon, were also in attendance. The birthday events which include the visit of the celebrant to the State Motherless home in Iyin-Ekiti with various gifts and materials, started with a commemorative holy communion service at the palace presided over by the Archbishop of Ondo Province and Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, Most Rev’d Christopher Omotunde while popular gospel musician, Bisi Alawiye-Aluko dazzled the celebrant and other guests with her melodious songs. In his homily, the cleric described Olori Adejugbe as a humble and committed mother who is resolute in her service to the church and things of God including the development of the community.  At 70, Bishop Omotunde counseled Olori Ewi to be grateful to God for sparing her life and be more concerned with things of her creator. “I want to congratulate you for the unquantifiable grace of God to clock 70 years. I want you to see everything you have attained and achieved as a privilege and you should strengthen your faith in God and as well serve Him better, because intimacy with God is the only way to have all-round success in life,” he said. Describing her as the pillar of his home in the last forty-seven years of their marriage, the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe noted that her efforts and support to him since his ascension to the throne cannot be overemphasised. She is a mother figure to many, hardworking and a woman of humility,” Oba Adejugbe said. The traditional ruler who expressed joy that his wife had the grace to celebrate her 70th birthday in good health, added that her wise counsel and contributions on issues relating to the development of the community have been unmatched. On her part, the wife of the state governor, Mrs Fayemi extolled the virtues of the Olori and called on her to be steadfast in her efforts at stabilising the throne and the palace, saying her contributions were another testimony of the roles of women in the development of the society. The governor’s wife who said that attaining the feat of seventy years was not by any means her power, but the grace of God, called on her to put up an autobiography which would serve as motivation to other women in the society. While lamenting that the place of culture and tradition is being eroded in the society, she advised Olori Adejugbe to serve as mentors to other queens, especially young ones on their roles and expectations in palaces across Yoruba land. The visibly elated Eyesorun, who was full of praises to God for the privilege to attain seventy years in good health, described it as an uncommon grace that can only be given by the Almighty. She commended her husband for his support and accommodation in the palace, describing him as a distinct and unique traditional ruler. She promised to dedicate the remaining days of her life to the work of God and service to humanity, urging guests at the event to be willing to give their lives to God and work in His ways without postponing the decision. At the children’s home, after presenting items and cash gifts, the queen advised spirited individuals to extend helping hands to the vulnerable in the society to complement the efforts of government at improving their standard of living. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!