The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged security agencies to immediately invite leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for questioning over their alleged connections with terrorists. The party made the demand following the Federal Government’s declaration of the bandits active in many parts is the country. A statement issued by Hon. Debo Ologunagba, PDP National Publicity Secretary Tuesday said the security agencies should commence investigation on APC leaders, for reportedly importing terrorist elements into the country as well as condoning their atrocious activities against Nigerians. The statement added: “Our Party urges the security agencies to investigate the confession by a former top APC member that APC leaders imported terrorist elements as political mercenaries in 2015 to help the APC muscle and rig the elections. “The security agencies should investigate allegations that these terrorists resorted to unleashing violence on our citizens because the APC and its leaders failed to honour their deal to pay the said mercenaries for the heinous ‘services’ they were contracted to provide against the Nigerian people by the APC. “Nigerians are invited to note how the APC and its leaders have not been forceful in condemning acts of terrorism in our country over the years. Instead, some APC leaders had turned into advocates of terrorism. This is in addition to reports of how APC leaders have been funnelling public funds to these terrorist elements under the guise of negotiations. “Moreover, the APC administration has continued to accommodate a self-confessed terrorism apologist in the federal cabinet despite outcry by Nigerians. It has also failed to adequately seek or accept assistance from foreign nations to forcefully track and plug sources of funding for terrorism in our country. This suggests either that the APC government is unable, unwilling and or complicit in the fight against terrorism.” The PDP urged the security agencies to immediately commence investigations “to further unravel the activities of the terrorists as well as expose and prosecute APC leaders found culpable.” The main opposition party called on Nigerians, particularly the victims of acts of terrorism to hold the APC and its leaders directly responsible “for their woes, trauma and the bloodletting that have befallen our dear nation in the last six years.” “The PDP, standing with Nigerians, insists that the APC, with its sympathy for terrorism and incompetence in governance, must not be allowed to stay in office beyond May 29, 2023, as such will spell doom for our nation,” the statement added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari.