Ahead of the forthcoming governorship election in Osun State, the member representing Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency of Osun State, Dr Busayo Oluwole Oke, has appealed to all the aggrieved party members in the state to sheathe their swords and work as a strong force to ensure a total victory for the party. In a statement made available to newsmen titled, “Allow Peace, Unity in Osun PDP” by the lawmaker who is also the chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts, he called on Senator Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi, the only senator on the platform of the party from Osun State to quickly rise up to the challenge and unite all the aggrieved factions in the state in the interest of all the stakeholders. He equally counselled that Senator Fadahunsi being the only senator on the platform of the party from Osun State should automatically be the leader of the party in the state while by tradition, practices and convention, Senator Ademola Adeleke being the erstwhile gubernatorial candidate of the party in the 2019 election, ought to have been adopted for the coming election, save for if he declines such adoption. According to Dr Oke, “In the interest of our great party, PDP, I am appealing to all feuding factions in Osun State Peoples Democratic Party, to sheathe their swords, embrace peace, so that the party’s bright chances will not be scuttled and its resounding goodwill will not be squandered in the forthcoming Osun governorship election . “Senator Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi as the only Senator on the platform of the party from Osun State which ultimately makes him the leader of the party in the state while  by tradition, practices and convention, Senator Ademola Adeleke being the erstwhile gubernatorial candidate of the party in the 2019 election, he ought to have been adopted, saved for if he declined such adoption.” He pointed out that there was no better time than now for all party chieftains, stalwarts and stakeholders to come together and nip in the bud the looming disaster waiting to consume the party due to selfish interest of some members but which must not be allowed to happen The lawmaker appealed that Senator Fadahunsi should bring his weight, position and office to bear and genuinely reconcile all the factions. Oke who noted that for the first time in the history of the party in the state, three top Executive members came Ijesaland – (South West National Vice Chairman, State Chairman and State Public Relations Officer), said that once all the aggrieved party members were able to resolve their differences amicably, future elections would favour the party. He advised that as the first step for permanent peace, all members having pending court cases  against the party to withdraw them immediately in the interest of peaceful reconciliation, stressing  that “every party faithful stands to reap bountifully if the PDP wins the forthcoming governorship election in the state and that the Ife/ Ijesa zone might even clinch the deputy governorship ticket of the party.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING!