The Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Munta Abimbola, on Tuesday, made it known that lawyers in the state can now file cases before courts within the state from the comfort of their offices with the recently launched Case Management System while judges can also monitor cases in their courts from the confines of their offices. Justice Abimbola who made this assertion while speaking during a training on E-filing for judicial workers and members of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) organised by the National Judicial Council, adding that introducing automation such as the Case Management System into the court system in the state will speed up justice delivery as few things will now be done manually. According to him, those being trained on E-filing and Case Management System; which is the use of technology for processing information, storing, retrieving and sending information, includes registrars, cashiers, judges, lawyers and other judicial staff. He explained that when adopted, ICT will greatly enhance the administration of justice generally and speed up the conclusion of trials, adding that “to take a leap in that direction is this opportunity now afforded us in Oyo State Judiciary by the National Judicial Council in conjunction with Gavel to assist in training staff and stakeholders. We greatly thank the NJC for picking us as one of the pilot states and we also thank the Gavel group. While appreciating the Chief Judge of Borno State, who led the team to Oyo State and is an ICT genius, for being instrumental to the setting up of the system, he promised to uphold the training, sustain the system and improve on techniques. “We thank my Lord for picking us and coming to our state, words cannot convey our happiness. He is a giant in the knowledge and mastery of the law and its practice, a good administrator and dogged fighter for the cause of the judiciary. I find him a very useful and helpful partner since we have been in the NJC together. He is God sent to us in the judiciary in Nigeria,” he said. Also speaking, the Chief Judge of Borno, Justice Kashim Zannah stated that the Nigeria Case Management System will lead the way for the country in the use of technology for the citizens, adding that the Oyo State judiciary got the benefit of a pilot state not because the Chief Judge is his friend but because he is a dogged, determined and persistent judge, adding that “I congratulate Oyo State Judiciary and commend the Chief Judge for being dogged in ensuring the benefit comes to the people of Oyo State. “The system developed by the National Judicial Council is one of the best in the world. In fact, those who know it attests to the fact that it is the one that gives the most control to the judiciary. Already, seven countries that are not in Africa that were believed to have more advanced and functional systems have come to copy this because they realize that this one is more functional and effective. “I urge Oyo people to be committed to the system because it makes justice delivery faster and less cumbersome. It will make people appreciate us and it will bring a lot of good to the judiciary and also benefit the entire populace,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!