THE management of the National Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) has expressed support for the purported arrest of one of its staff with other airport staff for touting and other vices. The management, while commending the development, has however called for satisfactory evidence from the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) that its staff was actually among those arrested. FAAN had on Monday announced the arrest of over 90 people caught at both the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, carrying out nefarious activities. According to the spokesperson of FAAN, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, “The touts were arrested for various acts of illegality including fake COVID-19 test results, touting, unauthorised entry, trespass, illegal facilitation, forgery, loitering, theft, public nuisance  and arguments, amongst others.” Some of those arrested, she said, included; staff of Patovilki Nigeria Limited, Lakewood Services, NAHCO Plc, and other airport staff. In a swift reaction, the ground handling company had declared; “NAHCO is a responsible player in the industry, as such, will not condone any form of illegality. We urge FAAN to always carry us along in this fight. The current move will in no small measure help our industry to grow as well as bring sanity to the airports. “We will however engage FAAN to provide us the details of our personnel alleged to be involved, to enable us to activate our internal disciplinary process as we currently do not have any clue as to who is involved, when, and in what capacity,” the company said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<