The new commissioner of police in Lagos State, Abiodun Alabi officially assumed office on Monday with a promise to increase police presence in all parts of the state . The new Lagos police boss, who was handed over to by AIG Hakeem Odumosu on Monday evening also promised to strengthen and encourage the state owned Rapid Response Squad . Alabi ,while speaking with newsmen , shortly after the handing over ceremony said “There will be respect for fundamental Human Rights I will ensure that no breach of Human Rights will be tolerated under my command and watch.” He also added that “Although Lagos State is undoubtedly a familiar turf for me having served in the state for many years in different capacities, nnevertheless, it has become necessary to bring to the fore my template and policing vision. “We will also ensure that our men’s conduct while discharging their duties must be in conformity with our professional ethics especially with issues of corruption and extra Judicial killing and act of incivility to members of the public. ” He also stated that “We will strive to build confidence and trust in members of the public particularly with state actors and non-state actors through intelligence led community policing. “Area commanders and Divisional Police Officers will be encouraged to meet regularly with non state actors to ensure common problems confronting their various areas of responsibilities are collectively addressed. ” CP Alabi also stressed that “I will not be allergic to constructive criticism but will see it as an information to rejig our security architecture for our policing strategy. ” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The new Lagos police boss added that “Therefore I will encourage collaboration with the Fourth Estate of the realm and appeal that issues concerning our policing policies in the s tate are brought to my knowledge promptly. I will also endeavour to hold parleys with journalists where solutions will be tabled and addressed in amicable manner.” He also stated that some dedicated lines will be rolled out to members of the public for accessibility and feedback to members of the public on issues of our common safety and security. CP Alabi also assured that the police in the state will monitor patterns of crime incidents in the state to ensure crime mapping and devise appropriate crime preventing strategies. The police boss assured that ” I will strengthen interagency collaboration and synergy with a robust and healthy relationship with heads of security agencies in Lagos State in management of the state,” “I also want to most sincerely commend the relentless efforts of the outgoing Commissioner of Police, Assistant Inspector of General, AIG Hakeem Odumosu whose operational dexterity and administrative acumen culminated in the security serenity enjoyed in Lagos State today.” The outgoing police boss in the state, Hakeem Odumosu, who will be retiring today (Tuesday) urged residents of the state to support the new police boss. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!