Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (EdoSUBEB) has commenced the training of over 2,000 primary and secondary school teachers to further drive the gains of EdoBEST to the grassroots. Additionally, 109 newly employed Learning and Development Officers and 26 Quality Assurance Officers are also being trained to strengthen the school supervisory system. The professional development training, which is ongoing in Benin City, is designed to provide qualified teachers and field officers for more communities in rural and hard-to-reach areas in Edo State. “This training will enable more of our esteemed pupils and students get the full benefits of EdoBEST as it brings junior secondary schools and more primary schools under the EdoBEST reform umbrella. We are paying particular attention to teachers and field officers from remote and hard-to-reach areas,” Mrs. Ozavize E. Salami, Executive Chairman Edo SUBEB said. Selected teachers, most of whom were engaged by the Edo State Government through the EdoSTAR Initiative, are being trained on better classroom management techniques, modern methods of child protection and safety, new methods of motivating pupils to learn, as well as strategies for delivering lessons using technology. Each batch of trainees will receive training over a ten-day period. At the end of the process, teachers will be better prepared to deliver on the demands of the 21st Century learning environment. “His Excellency Governor Godwin Obaseki is committed to spreading the gains of EdoBEST to every corner of our state. This is the motivation behind this training. We are doing this to ensure that all our schools have adequate number of upskilled teachers and every child is learning,” Mrs. Salami added. In 2018, Governor Godwin Obaseki launched EdoBEST, a wholistic basic education reform programme to address learning gaps and deficiencies identified in the school system. Since inception, the programme has been hailed as a workable, effective and sustainable template for basic education service delivery reform. Other states in Nigeria, including Lagos, have launched similar reform programmes mirroring EdoBEST. In November 2021, the Executive Chairmen of all 37 State SUBEBs and the FCT and the management of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) met in Benin City and an understudy of the EdoBEST programme resulted in glowing endorsements and unanimous calls for a nation-wide implementation of similar technology-backed education reforms. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!