THE Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has called for boycott of all Igbo businesses in the North with immediate effect. The latest development was as a result of ban on consumption of Fulani cows in South-East as ordered by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). In a statement issued by the spokesman of the coalition, Abdul-azeez Suleiman and made available to Nigerian Tribune on Thursday, the group called for a total boycott of all businesses operated by the Igbo all over the North. He noted that IPOB’s order issued in a statement on Monday by one Emma Powerful amounted to “a grave provocation and serious threat to northern commercial interests in the South-East and, by extension, to the physical well-being of northerners living as minorities among Igbo communities. “In a renewed resolve to pay coin for coin for any direct or indirect attack or threat to northerners and their interests anywhere in the country, the CNG called for the total boycott of all businesses, goods and services operated by Igbo in the North, effective from the same April 2022. “The CNG also called on northerners everywhere to decline support for any political party or formation or movement that has the active participation of South-East politicians. “For the avoidance of doubt, the North, while maintaining its tradition of tolerance and accommodation, shall, however, no longer be disposed to condoning further acts of irresponsibility in the form of deliberate threats of intimidation or harassment targeted at northerners living and doing legitimate businesses elsewhere in the country. “Since such targeted utterances in the past had led to physical attacks on northerners and destruction of their properties, particularly in the South East, we urge northern transporters and suppliers of goods to consider alternative trade routes to avoid the imminent risks that come with this threat by IPOB. “We warm that the North has had enough of the antagonism from the South-East and its attack dog, the IPOB and will no longer remain passive under such deliberate and sustained attacks. The North will henceforth be forced to react to every provocation and unwarranted abuse and violations. “The North’s reticence in speaking out or taking action is not borne out of fear or ignorance of how to respond in kind.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…