The Special Adviser to the Governor and Managing Director, Ogun State Property and Investment Corporation (OPIC), Arc. Abiodun Fari-Arole has said that the newly commissioned Kings Court estate will be duplicated in other parts of the state to accommodate more subscribers. Fari-Arole said this in Abeokuta while speaking with OGIS correspondent after the commissioning of the estate by the President and Commander-in-Chief of Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, stating that it would be constructed in semi-detached apartments to make it affordable to the people, like those constructed in Agbara and New Makun City. The OPIC MD noted that the newly built estate was one of the landmark projects of the Prince Dapo Abiodun led administration to give room for more economic growth and development, urging the people to cooperate and support the Governor in his ‘Building Our Future Together’ agenda. Presenting keys to some beneficiaries, Director of Marketing and Business Development, Mr. Dehinde Boye enjoined the allottees to live in peace and harmony with one another and ensure proper upkeep of the estate to maintain its standard. Speaking on behalf of other beneficiaries, Dr. Femi Shodipo said the process of eligibility was highly transparent, commendable and devoid of nepotism, appealing to the State government to do more of such projects. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!