The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Tanko Mohammad, has called for the nomination of six judges for appointment as Supreme Court justices. In a letter addressed to all judicial officers in Nigeria, the CJN said it had become necessary to fill the vacant positions caused by the death and retirement of justices. “You may recall that Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour retired from judicial service on 23 March 2021 on attaining the age of 70 years in compliance with the provision of Section 291 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended),” the letter reads. “Earlier on, Justices Nwali Sylvester Ngwuta and Samuel C. Oseji died on 7 March 2021 and 28 September 2021 respectively. “Justices Mary Odili, Ejembi Eko and Abdu Aboki will also be retiring from judicial service in 2022 on attaining the age of 70 years, in compliance with the relevant provision of the constitution. “It is, therefore, necessary to take steps to replace them on the Supreme Court bench without delay.” “I will be grateful if you could nominate suitable candidates for consideration, bearing in mind that two of the slots are for south-east geopolitical zone, one for south-south geopolitical zone, one for south-west geo-political zone, one for north-central geopolitical zone and one for north-west geopolitical zone of the country. “In making your submissions in respect of eligible candidates, you are requested to forward 10 judgments delivered in contested cases two years preceding the date of nomination in the case of judicial officers and 10 judgments obtained in contested cases fives years preceding the date of nomination in the case of legal practitioners in private practice, certified by competent authorities. “You are requested to comment on the character, attitude and suitability of the candidates nominated by you.” Muhammad added that the nominations must be sent in no later than February 28. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!