Prominent Lagos indigenes under the aegis of Ọmọ Eko Pataki on Thursday said 2023 is the “Lagosian inflection point,” the defining moment to turn the fortunes of Lagos State around and restore a new equitable order. They called on all Lagosians to come together, speak out loud and clear in total rejection of the manner in which they are being sidelined in the governance of the state. The group gave the charge in a release entitled: “Lagos: Time for a New Order,” issued by its chairman, Chief Olabode George; Major-General Tajudeen Olanrewaju and Mr. Gbadebo Dallass, both Trustees, and Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, the General Secretary, a copy of which was made available to newsmen. The group, while giving the charge, further called on their fellow compatriots to go beyond the limiting confines of partisanship, work selflessly with steadfast and brave hearts, defiant of what it termed “oppressor’s insolence,” and ensure they “vote out those who have held us in thralldom for 21 years.” The group demanded that Lagos must start on a new slate, saying that the era of politics of jaundiced nepotism where everything had to be by dictates and consent of a godfather was over. “This is perhaps the most critical year in the chequered history of the Nigerian Union. As 2023 draws nearer, we move closer to the great unknown. “The year 2023 is the Lagosian inflection point. It is our defining moment to turn the fortunes of our state around and restore a new equitable order. “But it cannot be done alone. Together, men and women of goodwill must come to the barricades and speak out loud and clear in total rejection of the tyrannical person of straw who would play God with our ancestral holdings. “We must all work selflessly with steadfast and brave hearts, defiant of the oppressor’s insolence, sworn to vote out those who have held us in thralldom for 21 years. “Lagos must start on a new slate. The politics of jaundiced nepotism is over,” Omo Eko Pataki stated. The prominent Lagosians, while noting that Lagos, which was once regarded as state of excellence, has now been reduced to another backwater debtor state allegedly owing over N3.28 trillion in domestic debts alone despite reportedly generating N665 billion every year in internally generated revenue.” “Well, all beginnings must have an end. Lagosians must collectively seize their own fortunes in their hands. They must decide the way forward towards peace, harmony, and genuine democracy. This is now a contention beyond partisan affiliation. It is a coalitional fight for our freedom and for the emancipation of generations yet unborn. “There is no other way. The battle is now afoot. The struggle is beyond the limiting confines of a partisan slugfest. Everyone must be part of the fray. It is a battle where no one can straddle the fence save cowards and collaborationists. There is no room for neutrality here. We are all part of the titanic barricades. “The historic mobilization has begun. The challenges ahead may be tough. The grapple with those who presently wield nauseating privileges will be tense, taut, and fierce. But we dare not fail nor falter. It is indeed a struggle between light and darkness, between the forces of malignity and the forces of good. “It is said that power is not easily yielded up by the oppressor. It must be demanded by the oppressed. The noose will not remove itself. It must be cut off with passion and defiance,” the indigenous Lagosians said. “But this much is clear. The good Lord is on our side. Justice is our strength. Truth is our abiding grace. Together, we will sweep the odious pretenders of today into the dust bin of history. It is the cyclical pattern of life. It is an unfailing trajectory of fate,” they assured. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi, and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…