A cleric, Alhaji Yussif Amudani Sulemana, has urged Ghanaians, especially the youth, to desist from calling their aged mothers witches. The youth, according to Sulemana, who is the Eastern Regional Chief Imam, should rather accord such women dignity and respect. He indicated that the practice of associating old women with witchcraft should be stopped immediately. In an interview with Ghanaian state-owned newspaper, Daily Graphic, at his Koforidua Zongo residence last Saturday, the Chief Imam explained that those who called their mothers, witches did that because their mothers did not allow them to engage in negative activities such as stealing, smoking of harmful substances and prostitution. According to Alhaji Sulemana, those who engaged in such disrespectful acts must stop now since they are frowned on by most religions, especially Islam. “If indeed, old women, as well as our old mothers, are truly witches, they would have killed us at infancy. We would not have even got the chance to live or grow,” he stated. Alhaji Sulemana, therefore, appealed to teachers, community leaders, chiefs as well as the National Commission for Civic Education (NCCE) to carry out educational programmes to teach children as well as adults to refrain from calling old women witches. He also advised women to take good care of their children and urged the police to deal with anybody, particularly the youth, reported to have called an old woman a witch. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Stop calling old women  Stop calling old women Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Stop calling old women  Stop calling old women How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!