The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has revealed that one Olakunle Obaoye, male, aged 25, has killed himself over depression occasioned by his inability to pay his debts. Tribune Online gathered that the deceased was found dead inside a bush at Erinmope village near Ayedun in the Oke Ero local government area of the state by one of his relations. The public relations officer of the Kwara state command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Babawale Afolabi, who confirmed the incident in Ilorin on Tuesday said that the matter has been handed over to the police for further investigations and necessary actions. “On Monday 17/01/2022 at about 12:00 hours, one Thomas Obaoye of Ayedun town went to our divisional office in the area to notify our men on the ground about the demise of his brother, Olakunle Obaoye, 25, whose lifeless body was found hanging on the three in what look like a suicide.” He also said that NSCDC men from Ayedun Division later went to the scene of the incident and worked together with the relatives of the victim to bring down his corpse from the three. “The dead body was later handed over to the family for proper burial,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!