Former National Vice Chairman (South) of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Eddy Olafeso, has assured that the crisis that engulfed the party in Ondo State would soon be resolved for the party to come out stronger. Olafeso who stated this at the weekend during the empowerment programme of the lawmaker representing the South senatorial district of the state, Senator Nicholas Tofowomo, said the party has embarked on a reconciliation mission that would help to build one big cohesive and purposeful party. He noted that the party would gain more in peace and unity, urging members of the party to build a strong party by addressing all differences and said we are still one big family that has more to gain in peace, unity and teamwork. He urged members and leaders of the party in the state not to allow the issue of leadership to cause further division within the party and said the party needs sincere commitments, dedicated members with aggressive membership drive towards building a formidable platform that will achieve greatness by accommodating all and exclude none. Olafeso said “Reconciliation is ongoing and we will get there, we have fallen several times and by now we have learnt how to organize ourselves and be united. “My desire is to help to unite the party even though I have been a victim of a lot of blackmail and I think that is gone, we must lay to rest yesterday, we must create a new beginning. “Those that have joined us. Like I said before, I welcome Dr Olusegun Mimiko and his team into the party and at the appropriate time leaders will sit and begin to move the party ahead, we are happy.” Speaking on the action of some party members kicking against the former governor of the state, Dr Olusegun Mimiko as the leader of the party, Olafeso said efforts should be geared towards organizing and settling all differences than clamouring for who leads the party. “We need to drop our ranks and work together, the truth is that leadership evolves and the party is clear on who is a leader. “Don’t let us worry ourselves about calling somebody a leader. Why do you want to lead a party that will fail, it requires all of us to work together as a team and ignore those nonsense, irresponsibilities and lack of discipline. “For us, what is important is our unity, it is not about who and who are the leaders. Since evolving as leaders, what are the things we have been able to achieve? Serial failure. We have to be careful of the future. “We should not be bothered about that, I am one of the greatest victims of Ondo politics but I am excited that I am still here and I am still going to work and at the appointed time we will all come together to ensure that our party wins the 2023 election.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!