THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected claims suggesting that it has zoned its 2023 presidential to the North. This followed recent remarks by former Niger State governor and chieftain of the party, Dr Babangida Aliyu, alleging that the party had agreed to re-zone the ticket to the North despite having thrown it open to aspirants from other parts of the country. In a statement by Hon Debo Ologunagba, the party’s National Publicity Secretary on Saturday, the PDP maintained that the claim “is completely misleading as it does not in any way represent the position of our party.” The statement added: “For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP emphatically and unequivocally states that it has not zoned it’s Presidential ticket to any part of the country. “The PDP is a political party founded on democratic principles and every action of the party, including zoning, is based on extensive consultations, discussions and consideration of all the issues as well as the various tendencies and interests across the nation, with the main objective of ensuring that the unity, peaceful co-existence and development of our nation are reinforced and promoted. The PDP therefore urged Nigerians, its teeming members and supporters to completely disregard “the unfounded zoning claims as being peddled.” It also cautioned those behind the claims to desist forthwith. The PDP thanked Nigerians across board for “the overwhelming interest they have in our party as their sure platform to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from misrule and urges them to remain united and focused as we join forces for the task ahead.” Meanwhile, the PDP has shifted the screening of aspirants for the Osun State Governorship election primary from the earlier scheduled date of Tuesday, January 11, 2022, to a new date of Wednesday, January 12, 2022. A statement issued by Honourable Umar Bature, its National Organising Secretary on Saturday, said the venue for the screening exercise remains PDP National Secretariat, Abuja at 10 am prompt. The statement said PDP regrets any inconveniences the change in date may have caused. “All aspirants, leaders, critical stakeholders and members of our party in Osun State should take note and by this, be guided accordingly,” it stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING!