The Controller General of Corrections, Haliru Nababa, has reshuffled the directorate heads in the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) and redeployed 170 other officers. Spokesperson of the Service, Mr Francis Enobore, in a statement, on Sunday, in Abuja, said the move was to inject new ideas and promote effective coordination of activities for enhanced service delivery. According to him, the development saw Deputy Controller General (DCG), MA Tukur, taking over the Directorate of Non-Custodial Measures (NCM) while DCG SN Nwakuche, who hitherto superintended over NCM Directorate takes over the Operations Directorate. DCG (covering duties), ME Melchizedek, now oversees the Directorate of Health and Welfare as DCG TO Oladipupo retires from service. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also, DCG (covering duties) EA Oputa has moved from the Directorate of Training and Staff Development (STD) to head the Directorate of Inmates’ Training and Productivity (ITP) while the Assistant Contr ACG LA Showumi who was the Zone A Coordinator now takes over the Directorate of TSD as DCG (covering duties). ACG Uche Nwobi is moved to Lagos to take over as Zone A Coordinator. Enobore said the exercise also affected 21 Controllers of Corrections and Deputy Controllers of Corrections. While some were deployed to take over state commands and Custodial Centres, others are assigned new responsibilities both at the National Headquarters and at state levels. The Controller General, Nababa, charged all officers and men concerned to report at their new posts and hit the ground running, giving no space for indolence that could further compromise the sacredness of Custodial Centres. He noted that this measure was not only germane as a response strategy to the security challenges confronting the NCoS but imperative in evolving new ideas that will set the Service on a higher pedestal. He, therefore, challenged officers to be ingenious in the discharge of their responsibilities. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Shake-up in NCoS as five directorate heads, 147 senior officers, others redeployed FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari Shake-up in NCoS as five directorate heads, 147 senior officers, others redeployed How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!