Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, on Thursday, sworn in eight commissioners and five special advisers. He warned the appointees to restrain from indulging in corrupt acts, saying that he would not stand for anyone at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC for embezzlement of public funds. Ortom said he decided to rejig his cabinet so as to further deliver strongly in the last lap of his administration. According to him, “I had to take stock and rejig my cabinet to be able to deliver. I noticed some areas to rejig government to make it more responsive and responsible.” He urged the new appointees to sustain the positive leadership qualities which saw them being recommended for their positions even as he reminded them that expectations are very high and as such, they must live up to their obligations. “I admonish you to be diligent as we finish this administration strong, Anyone found wanting will be kicked out. You must imbibe transparency, justice and fairness in the execution of your duties,” he urged them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Ortom swears in new commissioners, special advisers 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<