The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) rose from its 283rd meeting in Abuja, on Tuesday, and announced the retention of all parameters in order not to stall the recovery of the country’s economy which is still very fragile. Announcing the outcome of the MPC meeting, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, said the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) still remains at 11.5 per cent, Cash Reserves Ratio (CRS) at 27.5 per cent and Liquidity Rate holding at 30 per cent. The CBN Governor informed that all the parameters were retained to curb the inflationary pressures on the economy, boost output and the overall growth of the economy which is still very fragile presently, most especially since the policy has so far worked. Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. CBN retains benchmark interest rate at 11.5 per cent Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. CBN retains benchmark interest rate at 11.5 per cent How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!