A renowned flight dispatcher, Victoria Adegbe, has highlighted the role of flight dispatchers in the air safety value chain, stressing that the profession is increasingly recovering from the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its new variant, Omicron. Adegbe equally emphasised the negative impact of the virus on other activities connected to logistics and allied activities especially during the festive period. In a report by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), over 80,875  flights took to the skies within the Nigerian airspace in 2019 with about 8.48 million people onboard, both domestic and international flights. Ostensibly, due to many factors, the sector has enjoyed the collaboration of many industry players who have worked together to achieve zero air crashes for scheduled flight operations in many years. Adegbe attributed this feat to the combined efforts of professionals such as pilots, cabin crew, and officials of aviation agencies including the Federal Airports Authority (FAAN), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Accident Investigations Bureau (AIB), Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET) and air traffic control who all worked together as actors to achieve the safest and best flight experience. According to her, “The assignment is not complete yet as the NCAA in compliance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Standards and Recommended Practices (SARP) continues to regulate air travel with the mandate that certain professionals must carry licences as proof that they have been well trained and authorised to operate aircraft in line with the requirements of their operating documents licence. “To ensure compliance, pilots in Nigeria carry the green licence, cabin crew professionals carry the purple licence, while aircraft engineers carry the maroon licence. Before 2007, the actors responsible for planning the whole flight – the brains behind the flight route, fuel calculations, weight considerations, and other safety parameters and that share the responsibility for the safety of the flight equally with the pilot did not have a licence in Nigeria.” Lamenting how their counterparts in the US had been licensed since the 1920s, Adegbe said in order to bridge this gap in Nigeria, some founding fathers in the flight dispatch profession were called upon and ensured that they were licensed. This long battle, according to her, might have quickened the establishment of the umbrella body of professionals in the flight dispatch value chain christened Flight Dispatch Association of Nigeria (FLIDAN) in 2003. She disclosed that since 2007, over 1,000 licensed airline flight dispatchers have emerged since Lanre Alaka was issued 007 saying, “But, many unsung heroes and founding fathers as flight dispatchers namely; Wasiu Folarin (first FLIDAN President), Amos Olajide, Raji Taiwo, Olatunji, Madiakaegbu Isaac, Saminu Tanko, Olusina Sina, and a host of others, remain unacknowledged for their invaluable contributions to the profession. “So, whenever you see a plane take to the skies, be confident that someone in the control room, a licensed Flight Dispatcher, is sharing responsibility for the safety of your flight and you can relax.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<