The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Iyorchia Ayu; former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido; former governor of Ondo State, Senator Olusegun Mimiko; former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; former governors of Cross Rivers State, Mr. Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke in a meeting with former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. They arrived at the penthouse of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library Hilltop residence at about 12.25 pm. Also in the meeting were the former deputy governor of  Oyo State, Alhaji Taofeeek Arapaja, the State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Sikirullahi Ogundele and some elders and members of the party were equally in attendance. The National Working Committee of the party was on a visit to the former president. Details Later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…closed-door meeting with Obasanjo. closed-door meeting with Obasanjo Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…closed-door meeting with Obasanjo  closed-door meeting with Obasanjo Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!