TROOPS of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) in charge of security in Plateau State have intercepted 315 blocks of substances suspected to be cannabis, and estimated to be worth N6.5 million. OPSH, in a statement signed by its Information Officer, Major Ishaku Takwa, said the substances, which include 1,610 Pregabalin capsule IP 300mg (Nervigesic) capsules suspected to be illicit drugs without NAFDAC registration number, were neatly concealed in a Toyota Avensis car and Ford Edge bus. Takwa said the driver of the Toyota Avensis refused to stop for a search at the checkpoint on Akwanga–Gwantu road in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State. It added that on pursuit, troops shot at the vehicle and one of the suspects lost his life as a result of gunshot wounds, while other occupants of the car escaped into the bush. “The deceased was later identified as Danjuma Salisu. “Items recovered from the car include 314 parcels of substances suspected to be cannabis sativa, two fake military and Department of State Security (DSS) identity cards bearing the deceased’s name, a Motorola Radio and N10,000. “Along the same route, the Ford Edge bus driver abandoned his vehicle on sighting troops at a checkpoint on Fadan Karshi road in Sanga LGA of Kaduna State.” The statement further revealed that troops conducted a search on the vehicle and discovered large quantity of Pregabalin capsule IP 300mg (Nervigesic) capsules suspected to be illicit drugs. The OPSH spokesperson said relatives of the deceased had been identified and his remains had been recovered through court processes for burial. He added that substances recovered from the vehicle had been handed over to the Plateau State command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further investigation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…