Venerable Oladipo Ajomole of All Saint’ Church, Jericho, Ibadan, has said that living a  consistent benevolent life with Godliness while on earth is acceptable unto God. Venerable   Ajomole made the remark on Friday, at the funeral service organized for late Chief Olatunji  Adeniyi Aderoju to mark his exit on earth. According to him,  late Aderoju had lived exemplary lives that the whole church would ever appreciate.  He noted that late Aderoju was a reliable person and trustworthy leader that the church acknowledged among others in the country. He said: “Late Aderoju left an indelible landmark whose legacies are recommendable to our youngsters in the society. He made himself relevant by touching many lives not only in the house of faith but also outside the church community. He was a consistent philanthropic and a committed member of the church whose absence would be remarkably felt. “God expects every believer to live an exemplary life as a Christian whose life should impact others positively in the society. It is high time believers gave God their live time, as it has great reward from God. “On this note, I am enjoining Christians to start living benevolent lives by ensuring that their lives touch others around them. Every Christian’s life must be relevant in their immediate environment. I appealed to all sundry to have a positive change of life, as change is only possible while still alive. Indeed, the church will feel the demise of late  Aderoju, he said. Also speaking in the same vein,  Some of his friends who spoke with the press at the occasion, described late Aderoju as intelligent and a man of integrity whose lives touched many souls before he died. Tunde Tella one of his associate friends stated that late Aderoju lived a transparent life with a kind attitude to help others to grow their businesses. He said: “I am a beneficiary of late chief  Aderoju’s philanthropic and kind life. I am indebted to him in many ways. God used him a lot to start my business life and many of the other people he accommodated I learnt hard work from him. He had the heart that cared.” “One important thing to learn from late Aderoju is that he did not allow his initial background to distort his focus and attainment in life, as he built on his little beginning to become great in life. He was an achiever and lived a fulfilled life. This is a great lesson for our youngsters on which to build their lives constructively.” Drawn from tribute from his family, his wife, Yeye Bolanle Aderoju described him, as the most hardworking man she ever knew in life. There were so many twists and turns but you handled every situation beautifully well. He was a self-made and most proud father and husband. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Living benevolent life  Living benevolent life Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Living benevolent life  Living benevolent life 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!