Ibadan Professionals (IP) have commended members of the Olubadan-In-Council for “upholding the sanctity of tradition” in the selection of a new king following the demise of the 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji. Their statement came on the heels of the selection of Senator Lekan Balogun by an overwhelming majority of eleven out of the twelve-member council on account of his being the Otun Olubadan, customarily the next in the line of succession. In a statement jointly signed by its President and Publicity Secretary, Architect Akin Aderopo and Dr Sule Arisekola respectively, the Ibadan Professionals aligned themselves with the decision of the Olubadan-In-Council, urging Ladoja to play the statesman and resist the promptings from those they describe as “trying to constitute themselves into a cog in the wheel of progress, peace, and tranquility of the great Ibadan kingdom.” “Aside from his precedence in the succession order, Ibadan Professionals view Senator Balogun as a man of formidable clout at the national level as well as a man of sterling personal accomplishments and therefore the kind of king that befits our beloved kingdom in the 21st century,” they said. IP consists of accomplished professionals in various fields who are indigenes of Ibadan. The body urged Governor Makinde to act in accordance with customs “by doing the right thing at this momentous moment and shun pressures from political desperadoes who do not mean well for Ibadan in particular and Oyo State in general.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…