Director-General of the Forum of Governors on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Salihu Lukman, has resigned from his position. Tribune Online checks revealed that Lukman is the first casualty in the raging leadership tussle among the APC Governors. Tribune Online source revealed that the Progressive Governors Forum has been divided into the pro and anti-Buni forces in the last three weeks. Among the governors, those not comfortable with the alleged tenure elongation plot by the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, have been smarting for showdown with the Pro Buni camp, believed to be in the majority. Lukman, Director General of the PGF had engaged in open criticism of the Governor Buni led APC CECPC. In a recent letter addressed to Kebbi State Governor and Chairman of the PGF, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Lukman had expressed concern over what he described as the indifference of the interim leadership of the party to live up to their assignment of conducting a national convention. Lukman in his letter dated January 5, 2022, titled, “APC National Convention: Urgent Matters for the Survival of APC,” the Director-General of the PGF who also called for the sack of the national secretary of the party, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, alleged that the APC CECPC under the leadership of Governor Buni was using the ongoing national reconciliation assignment given to former Nasarawa state governor, Abdullahi Adamu as an excuse to abort the national convention. A party source told Tribune Online that at the meeting held last Sunday at the Kebbi Governor’s Lodge Asokoro, Abuja, those against Lukman continued administration of the Governor’s secretariat overwhelmed the anti-Buni forces. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.APC governors’ forum DG, Salihu Lukman, quits APC governors’ forum DG, Salihu Lukman, quits 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!