No fewer than two people died when a mast collapsed when some people were working on it. The incident also left people injured. The incident, according to reports occurred at a junction in Katsina-Ala town, headquarters of Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State on Wednesday evening. It was gathered that some people were working on an old NITEL mast when a section of the mast suddenly collapsed on the workers. While confirming the incident to newsmen in Makurdi on Thursday, Chairman of Kastina-Ala local government, Alfred Atera, said that some men were dismantling the old NITEL mast situated in the area. “After loosing one side of the mast, the other part suddenly collapsed. Two of them (workers) died instantly while five others were taken to the hospital,” Atera said. State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Catherine Anene, confirmed the incident. “Two people died. Others are in the hospital,” the PPRO said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, IFEDAYO OGUNYEMI, in this report, unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!