One Pastor Timothy Oluwatimilehin, of Spirit-Filled International Christian Church, Olomore, Abeokuta, has been arrested by operatives of the Ogun State Police Command, for ‘sleeping’ with a housewife and her two daughters. It was learnt that the pastor lured his victims, kept them in a custody and had carnal knowledge of them individually. A complaint was lodged by the husband of the housewife and father of the two ladies, at the Adatan Police Station, that Oluwatimilehin, had carnal knowledge of his wife and two daughters. The DPO of Adatan, SP Abiodun Salau, upon receiving the complaint sent his detectives to effect the arrest of the suspect. The pastor upon interrogation confessed to the crime but pleaded for forgiveness. He told the Police that he took advantage of a little misunderstanding between the woman and her husband to carry out the act. Meanwhile, the commissioner of police, CP Lanre Bankole has directed the anti-human trafficking and child labour unit of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department to take over the case and diligently investigate it with the view to charging the suspect to court as soon as possible. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Suspected Cannibal Pays N500,000 For Boy’s Human Organs, Says ‘That’s My Favourite Meal, Especially The Throat’  A 57-year-old man, Aminu Baba, arrested by Zamfara State Police Command for allegedly conniving with three others to kill a nine-year-old boy and get his body parts, for which he paid N500,000, opened up on his liking for human parts as a meal, with the throat as his favourite. Police, Amotekun After Criminals On Lagos-Ibadan Expressway IN response to the agitations and fears of people plying the Lagos-Ibadan highway over attacks by kidnappers, Ogun State Police Command has assured the general public that it has mapped out strategies to outrun the kidnappers and flush them out of their axis of operation. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!