The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Niger State Region has stated that there was another fire incident which occurred on Sunday morning at 33kv power House injection substation, in Minna, the state capital which damaged its equipment. The company stated this in a statement signed by its management and made available to the newsmen on Sunday in Minna. The statement added that as a result of the fire incident, areas such as Tunga, Farm Centre, M. I. Wushishi housing estate, David Mark road, Maitumbi,Gurusu, Emir Palace, Anguwan Sarkin, Anguwan Daji, Minna , Sabon Gari, Limawa, Moris, Police Barrack, Keteren Gwari, Airport Quarters and Commissioner Quarters will be out of electricity supply. AEDC management however assured customers that its team of engineers are presently working to address the problem, saying “we regret any inconvenience on our esteemed customers in Niger State at this period.” The company thereby promised to ensure that normal supply will be restored as soon the problem was resolved. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  Power outage in Niger after fire incident at Abuja disco sub-station | Power outage in Niger after fire incident at Abuja disco sub-station |