Gombe State Police Command has confirmed the shooting of a tanker driver by one of its personnel at a Police checkpoint along Darazo-Dukku-Gombe road on Monday. The confirmation was made by the State Commissioner of Police, Ishola Babaitan when contacted by Journalists in Gombe over the incident. Mr Ishola Babaitan confirmed the incident and assured that the said Police Inspector, Urbanus Ishaku has since been arrested while investigation has already commenced ascertaining what actually happened to lead to the shooting. He also assured that any reckless Policeman that violates the norms of the Police Force will be dealt with according to the laws of the land. The Police Commissioner stressed that “he will not go free, no matter who he is”. Meanwhile, Gombe State Government has called for calm after a Policeman shot a tanker driver during a disagreement on Gombe-Dukku-Darazo road. The State Commissioner for Information, Julius Ishaya Lepes and his counterpart from the Ministry of Internal Security and Ethical Orientation, Adamu Kupto Dishi, made the call during a press briefing Monday evening in reaction to the development which has raised tension in the state. Julius Lepes said that the shooting took place during a disagreement when the tanker driver, Abdullahi Bello refused the Policeman’s command to come down from his lorry at a Police Checkpoint at Hashidu junction Monday morning. According to him, after the shooting, other tanker drivers immediately mobilized their tankers and blocked the road for several hours in solidarity with their colleague which caused a commotion on the busy road linking Gombe and Bauchi states through Darazo and to the other North-Western States. He said that the Government intervened immediately to forestall law and order as the Policeman was disarmed and arrested adding that the Police authorities in Gombe are currently investigating the cause of the incident. He also assured that the victim was rushed to a hospital in Gombe town where he is stable and responding to treatment. The Commissioner called on the general public, especially road users on that route to go about with their normal businesses as normalcy has been restored in the area. According to him, Government has also reached out to the members of the tanker drivers association to calm their nerves against taking the laws into their hands. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!