Hoping for a 2021 that would bring us out of the pandemic and back to business as usual was short-sighted. If 2021 taught us anything, it was that the pandemic is here to stay, and in order to be successful, we must navigate this new normal. How will that new normal manifest itself in 2022? While no one can predict the future, leaders insist that we focus on what we can control, to be better prepared for what we cannot. I asked ten leaders what they learned from 2021 that they’re doubling down on in the new year.  Here is what they said. “As a business owner going into 2022, it is imperative to build your leadership structures on trust, knowledge, accountability, and transparency. These are the backbone of any successful company and will keep your employees feeling fulfilled year after year,” says Andrew Valdez Johnston, realtor at Hulett and Associates Inc. “If you are honest, conduct yourself in a respectful manner, and deliver what you promise to your team, when you promised you would do so, you can’t go wrong. The issues arise when people try to take advantage of their company’s talent to make quick cash.” “In 2022, prospective employees are looking for leaders with collaborative tendencies,” says Victor Cuevas, CEO of Griffin Crowd Capital. Employees “want to have a say in the policies and operations where they work. I am not saying that employees want to run the show. In fact, many prefer to stay away from leadership roles.” “What you and your teammates do between the great workdays is just as important, if not more so, than the days with big wins. It will be crucial in 2022 to continue to be passionate and focused about whatever you do so your employees and teammates remain inspired and driven through any lows,” says Nina Luke, founder and CEO of FST Investments. “It’s important to view your business as not just a way to build wealth but as an impactful entity. The personal and professional influence of the decisions you make should be at the top of your mind,” says Douglas Eze, financial planner and founder of Largo Financial Services. “It is crucial to invest in your employees to enable them to do their work well. Use a common-sense, pragmatic approach to this. If you would like certain perks or benefits as an employee, chances are your teammates will as well.” “As we transition to a post-Covid era, we see trends in the average workday, unlike anything we are used to. Employees prefer to work from home, are concerned with mental health, and desire meaning from their jobs. These trends are an advantage to you with the right know-how,” says Stormi Banks, CEO of Pink Print. “Ask yourself authentic questions.  Be true to what you’re selling, so it doesn’t feel like a sale. Know that your team meets a need that is void in your customers’ life,” says Dr. Mario McCoy, CEO and founder of NCMPRBL. “Empower your team to buy into your company culture. Mirror your brand story from the inside out and inspire your teammates to be proud to be a part of what you’re building.” “My mindset as a new author was all about permission. Who would tell me I was worthy to become the person I wanted to be? Who would tell me I was worthy to share my books with the world? Eventually, I realized that I could give myself that permission, but what was more powerful was realizing that I could give it to others too,” says  Michelle Granara, pen name Emma Jean, founder of Imanauthor.com. “Some people are scared to embrace technology because they think it eliminates the human element of business. However, when technology picks up the slack, professional-interpersonal relationships can flourish,” says Khaled Yatim, founder of Nile. “Find the holes in the day-to-day operations of your employees. Which low-value adding activities are taking up too much time? Can you automate these processes so you can focus your attention on more important things, like big projects and brainstorming sessions?” “As a leader, we need to be a little bit more prepared in 2022. 2020 showed us all how the uncertainties of life can knock you off your feet with no preamble. 2021 was about regrouping and putting the pieces back together. 2022 should be about preparation,” says Joy Maxwell, founder and CEO of Childcare University. “Sometimes we forget that everyone is just as human as we are. Career status, financial status, disability status, and so many other factors can make us subconsciously feel more than or less than someone else. I strive to treat everyone I come into contact with respectfully. That is something we, as leaders, should all strive to do in 2022,” says P. Lanette Pinkard, founder and CEO of Cruise Interpreter Academy. When it comes down to it, the leadership skills that will get you through difficult times are no different than those required when the going is easy.  The difference is that in good times, leaders can lack skills and still succeed.  In difficult times, a failure in leadership can have dire consequences. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…