Military authorities have reported to the Kaduna State Government that troops engaged and repelled terrorists during operations in Chikun and Igabi local government areas of the state. This is according to the state commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan in a statement on Tuesday. Aruwan disclosed that three terrorists were neutralized, while eight persons were rescued. The commissioner in the statement stated that in the first operational feedback, troops in the Maraban Rido general area of Chikun LGA responded to sounds of gunfire and swiftly mobilized towards the target location in Ungwan Musa. The troops fought their way through an ambush, which they cleared aggressively as they approached the scene of the attack. “An intense firefight followed at the targeted building. The troops’ superior firepower eventually prevailed over the terrorists who escaped through a back fence with gunshot wounds, as confirmed by bloodstains that lined their exit. “The troops pursued the terrorists through their withdrawal route and in the process rescued eight persons who had initially been taken, hostage. The rescued persons are listed as, Likita Igah, Nancy Likita, Genesis Likita, Wilson Likita, Mary Kalat, Victor Joel, Simon Musa Ali and Rufus Elisha. One of the outlaws was neutralized by the troops during the operation”. Similarly, an attack at Unguwar Tasha in Birnin Yero general area of Igabi LGA was successfully foiled by security forces, when terrorists tried to force their way into residential buildings in the area. He added that one of the bandits was neutralized in this operation. “Also, a terrorists’ attack was foiled in Hayin Kanwa, Giwa LGA. One of the terrorists was similarly neutralized during the encounter. “Receiving the feedback, Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i expressed gratitude to the troops for their brave efforts during the operations. He commended the troops’ swift response to the attacks and their relentless force in beating back the outlaws to rescue the citizens. “The Governor extended his prayers and warm regards to the eight rescued persons and wished them all the best for the future. “The Kaduna State Government urges citizens to immediately report any individuals found seeking treatment for suspicious injuries, by calling the Security Operations Room on the numbers 09034000060 and 08170189999”. Meanwhile, the commissioner said Security agencies are sustaining patrols in the general area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!