RESIDENTS of Remo North, Ikenne and Sagamu local government areas of Ogun State have benefited from the free medical outreach facilitated by the member representing Remo federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Adewunmi Onanuga. The medical outreach organised recently covered blood pressure test, temperature test, eye test, blood sugar test, teeth care and general human anatomy examination. The three-day outreach took place at the palaces of Odemo of Isara, the Alaperu of Iperu and the Akarigbo of Remo in the three local government areas. The participants include women, men, the aged and young people who trooped out en masse for the outreach. While addressing the participants, Onanuga noted that she facilitated the outreach because of deaths related to treatable health challenges suffered by the people. She also urged the participants to abstain from habits that could threaten their overall well-being, adding that health is wealth. Dignitaries at the flag-off of the outreach include the Odemo of Isara, Oba Albert Mayungbe; lawmaker rep resenting Sagamu Constituency II at the Ogun State House of Assembly, Ademola Adeniran; his counterpart representing Remo North, Solomon Osho; All Progressives Congress (APC) chairman in Remo North Local Government Area, Chief Muyiwa Sobambo and his counterpart in Sagamu, Rafiu Opaleye, among others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Sagamu free medical outreach | Sagamu free medical outreach | Sagamu free medical outreach | Sagamu free medical outreach 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<