An entrepreneur and pageant organiser, Konnie Agu, has announced the launch of FunHub, a company focused on providing families with fun filled experience. Konnie Agu in an interview with Tribune Online noted that her entertainment company, FunHub, was established to create fun moments for kids and families. According to her she has gained a lot of experience from previous events organised. She explained that FunHub was created in response to the shortage of events and activities during the festive period for kids and other family members. She said, “We planned and executed the Miss Nigeria pageant, as well as some other awards and shows. “I went ahead to conceptualise, plan and execute the Face of Okija event which was a corporate social responsibility event for Nestoil Group. After this project, the zeal to plan and execute my own events kept getting stronger.” Speaking about the previous programmes and events she had organised, Agu said, “In December, we had our first event tagged ‘Christmas Funday’ at the Landmark Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos. For me, it was a dream come true. “Starting out last year, I did not know the event would eventually hold as I kept pushing it forward. But with the smiles on the faces of attendees, I am glad it happened. “On several occasions, I felt like giving up on the idea. I gave myself many reasons to make me believe the time wasn’t right. With the tough economic situation in the country and hike in prices of almost everything, I cannot beat my chest to say it was financially worth it. But, because of the passion I have for kids and their families, it was more of a moral profit for me.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!