The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has said that Nigerian leaders need to be sincere in order to win the war against insecurity. He said the country cannot make progress if leaders refuse to look inward and ensure they are sincere in waging war against insecurity. Governor Bello stated this on Tuesday in Abuja at the book launch on former Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen Tukur Buratai and public lecture titled: “The Great Exploits of Buratai”. The Kogi State Governor stated that the safety of Nigerians cannot be assured if the country is not secured. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said: “Until Nigeria is secured, starting from our homes, then nobody is safe. I want all leaders to look inward and ensure we are sincere as leaders. Whatever we are doing, we must be sincere about it, if not, even if we have angels as President, Governors and as service chiefs, if we are not sincere, a little will be achieved in securing our lands. “Leadership is the major solution to insecurity, it is not the only president that can show leadership, we can provide leadership in our various homes, constituencies and in all our areas of responsibilities. Bello, while Commending the former Chief of Staff and Ambassador to Republic of Benin, Lt-General Tukur Buratai (rtd) for playing a great role in the stability of peace in Kogi state and Nigeria, he said his administration brought an end to the bombings in Nigeria. “Buratai brought to a halt bombing which was the order of the day in Nigeria. This is a great achievement”, he said. He, therefore, urged the Director-General of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) to educate Nigerians on the importance of leadership. “There should be a way that all Nigerians are sensitized about our roles and responsibility, no matter how we deploy the Nigerian army to tackle insecurity, if we don’t have a change of heart and be sincere, we will go nowhere. Speaking, Buratai while commending the guest speakers informed that President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership has brought relative peace to the country which everyone is enjoying today. He said: “We are all witnesses to the security situations we faced, but today we have seen remarkable changes”. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!