Chairman, South-East Governor’s Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, has called on Nigerians to support the Igbo presidency come 2023. Umahi stated this in Abakaliki while addressing thousands of his supporters who received him back to the state after intimating President Buhari of his ambition to run for president in the forthcoming election. According to him, the South-East presidency will unite Nigeria as Igbo men have investments across the country and will not like to do anything that can divide the nation. “Whoever God has called, he has already predestined unto safety and success and deliverance. And from the phone calls you are getting and the ones I am getting, it looks like this is the answer the nation Nigeria has been looking for. “I want to appeal to you, we have two choices. One choice is to allow God to fight the battle. The other choice is to fight the battle. And if God is fighting the battle, we will keep our peace. How do we keep our peace? Do not provoke people, do not insult people. Other aspirants are more qualified than me but remember I am David. “Let nobody be afraid of the presidency of an Igbo man. There is nobody from the South-East will become president that will not work for greater unity of this country because we have investment everywhere. “Some enemies of South-East said if South-East person becomes the president of this country, he will divide the country. How will he divide the country? We have investments everywhere. Will you set fire in your house?” Umahi then vowed to fight corruption to a standstill and sustain President Buhari’s legacy if elected the president of the country. The presidential aspirant also promised to end medical tourism in the health sector. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! <<