The family of Late Edo business mogul and philanthropist, Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo, popularly known as Captain Hosa, on Sunday announced a 100 number scholarship to indigent students in Edo public schools in the name of their late patriarch. Making the announcement in Benin, the eldest child of the philanthropist and wife of the Olu of Warri, Olori Atuwatse III, said that the decision to offer Tue scholarship was informed by the passion the late billionaire had for education and the downtrodden people. Olori Atuwatse III, spoke when she led her other siblings to the mausoleum of the late billionaire to offer prayers to mark posthumously, their father’s 64th birthday, at the mausoleum site at the Wells Hosa Greenhouse farm, where songs of worship were rendered and prayers were also offered for the soul of their late father. She explained that the idea of scholarship was informed by their father’s passion and support towards education as well as one of the legacies he bequeathed on them. The Itshekiri Queen said that the modalities for selecting the beneficiaries, to make the offer to go across public schools in Edo State, was being perfected, added that children of parents who could not afford school fees would be given priority. “We are going to pay school fees for 100 children in the memory of our father because he was very passionate about education and he often said what he owed us, more importantly, is education. “We are targeting primary and secondary school children in public schools in the state, whose parents are unable to pay their fees for the year. “From all, we have heard since he passed on it is evident that he lived an impactful life and left great legacies and that is what we the children are doing to keep alive the ideals he stood for,” Olori Atuwatse III said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…