Ahead of the Osun State gubernatorial election, the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has warned political parties not to turn the state into a political battleground. IPAC in a statement by his chairman, Mr Wale Adebayo, on Sunday in Osogbo, called on the people of the state not to sell their destiny or mortgage their conscience for electoral porridge. IPAC urged political parties to abide by the dictates of the electoral act. “We advise all concerned to toe the path of honour and engage in issues-based campaign and not engage in acts that will lead to the breakdown of law and order,” Adebayo said. He added that: “IPAC is aware of the serious crisis within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State. We appeal to them in the interest of our people not to turn into a fiefdom. “It is obvious that democracy can only flourish in a peaceful environment. It is our only hope of building a strong, virile, stable, prosperous, and just society. “Any threat to the democratic process is a threat to our nationhood and existence and it must be resisted by all patriotic Osun indigenes.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!