President Muhammdu Buhari on Saturday presided over the ceremony marking the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day in Abuja. The activities started October 28, 2021, when the president launched the remembrance emblem at the presidential villa, Abuja. During Saturday’s ceremony which took place at the National Arcade opposite the Eagle Square in the Three Arms Zone, the president inspected a Guard of Honour mounted by detachments of the Nigerian Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Nigerian Legion. Prayers were said by Christian and Muslim clerics for the peaceful repose of the souls of the dead and the health of the nation. Buhari laid a wreath on the Tomb of an Unknown Soldier as a mark of last respect to the fallen heroes who paid the supreme price to keep global peace and the nation’s territorial integrity. Others who laid wreaths are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko; Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello represented by his Minister of State, Ramatu Aliyu, and his Defence counterpart, Gen. Bashir Magashi. Others are the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, Service Chiefs, the Nigerian Legion, among others. Three volleys of 21 gun salutes were fired at the event followed by the signing of the Remembrance Day anniversary register by the president accompanied by heads of the other branches of government, military chiefs and other top officials of government. President Buhari thereafter released white pigeons to indicate the harmony at the venue and the nation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Buhari presides over Armed  Buhari presides over Armed Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Buhari presides over Armed  Buhari presides over Armed 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!