Katsina State Independent Electoral Commission (KTSIEC) has expressed its readiness to conduct the local government elections on Monday, April 11, 2022. Chairman of the commission, Alhaji Ibrahim Bako, disclosed this at a press briefing held in Katsina on Tuesday. According to him, “with this notice, all stakeholders particularly the political parties should note that only candidate(s) sponsored by political parties will officially be considered to contest the election.” He, however, advised all stakeholders to comply and adhere to the laws and guidelines governing the conduct of the local government council in the state. The commission’s chairman added that the guidelines and timetable for the elections would soon be distributed to all stakeholders to ensure a hitch-free election across the state. Bako also maintained that all political rallies and campaigns commence from 11th January and ends on 10th April 2022. While assuring that the commission would do its best to carry all stakeholders along in all its dealings, adding that the commission would conduct the elections in accordance with the relevant laws. Tribune Online reports that the government failed to conduct LG elections in the state for six years while citing a court case in spite of the condemnation by the opposition. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…