The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr Timipre Sylva, has stated that the Federal Government (FG) was mindful of the impact the removal of subsidy would have on Nigerians. Hence, he said the FG is working out modalities and processes with Labour as well as other relevant stakeholders in the sector. Sylva who spoke during a current affairs programme on Channels television said although, subsidy removal was a desirable policy direction, a complete removal is not currently on the table. “I will tell you categorically that at this moment now the complete removal of subsidy now is not on our plate at all. The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is not in support of removing subsidy at this time. So we are working out the processes. “Of course, we all know that it is a desirable policy direction but we know that it will have some impacts on the people and that is why we are trying to work out some of those things and until those details are properly worked out with labour and other stakeholders in the sector,” he said. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE On the heels of several agitations against subsidy removal in February, the Minister said this would need to be worked out between the FG and States. “This is something that needs to be worked out between the FG and States because this is a federation issue and that is why for now, we are working with the governors to see how we can continue with this policy direction of subsidising fuel for the foreseeable future. “I believe that the governors themselves believe that the removal of the subsidy is an inevitable policy direction. Everybody knows that subsidy removal is something we need to do as a country but everybody is mindful of the impact this is going to have on the people so we have to sit back together and think about the process that can have the least effect on the people.” However, he said the FG was looking at other alternative sources of fuel saying: “That is why we are giving them options like alternative fuel which will be cheaper, autogas so that this will give an alternative to the people who finds PMS too expensive.” Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa FG mindful of impact of subsidy removal on Nigerians ― Sylva How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!