The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, will deliver the 52nd convocation lecture of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Akoka coming up next Monday, January 17, with a total of 12, 217 students from both undergraduate and postgraduate studies graduating. He is to speak on “Building Back Better: Creating a New Framework for Tertiary Education in Nigeria in the 21st Century” even as the Hon Justice Amina Adamu Augie of the Supreme Court will chair the event. The vice-chancellor of UNILAG, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, gave the hint on Tuesday at a pre-convocation press conference held at the University Senate Chamber. He said the convocation ceremony for the 2019\2020 graduating set with lots of activities in the pipeline would feature awards of first degrees, diplomas, certificates and prizes to graduating students across departments between Tuesday 18 and Thursday 20 holding in two sessions, morning and afternoon. Giving statistics, he said a total of 7,799 would graduate with first degrees and 238 of them with first-class honour and with the faculty of engineering leading the pack with 63 students while 4,418 would receive postgraduate degrees with a 68- year-old woman graduating as a PhD holder and the oldest in the set Prof Oluwatoyin, who said the convocation ceremony would be the last for him as vice-chancellor of UNILAG having already spent four years and two months out of his five-year single term named Ekeoseye Elizabeth Osereme of the Department of Zoology (Environmental Toxicology and Conservation Option) with a CGPA of 4.95 out of possible 5.00 points as the overall best graduating student at the first-degree level while Umudu Joy Chinyere who obtained her PhD in Mathematics (Pure), as well as Ehiorobo Osa Abraham who obtained his PhD in Management, would graduate with the best PhD. Thesis overall and in humanities, respectively. He explained that the university is continued to record better results each year due to the improved commitment of students and lecturers and other university workers, adding that all the graduands had been thoroughly baked in knowledge and character. On electricity, the vice-chancellor said the university spent about N1.4 billion in the last one year on electricity supply to the university community. He said the bill was huge and that the university is already working out an alternative source of power to reduce the cost of electricity in the university. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari.