Instagram content creator, skit maker and brand influencer, Paris Kinsey, aka “Brotherofcolor” has revealed how much his life has changed since he began creating content on social media. He said, seeing how much people appreciate and relate to what he does makes it more interesting and satisfying for him. According to him, being one of the most recognizable accounts on social media and rising to the top in a few years could only mean that his fans and followers appreciate what he does and it confirms that content creation on social media can now be seen as a full time career and has come of age. Paris recalled how difficult it was getting by before the fame of social media. “It was difficult at first trying to get people to follow my page and to convince them that my content was worth checking out. It took one skit that went viral for them to take notice”, he added. He was quick to point out that taking his craft and skills to the next level didnt come easy but that his story has changed for good. With a flourishing social media career that has seen him become one of the most popular content creator and influencer around, Paris believes that nothing can stop anyone who is determined never to give up. “Being an influencer has opened my eyes to a lot of things, so I want to leverage on my reach to teach people on how to use what the have to make their lives and that of those around them count. It doesn’t have to be only about money alone, fame and celebrity status should also be used for worthy causes too,” he added. Speaking about his plans for the year, the 2022, Paris said he wants to keep creating new content that would pinpoint societal issues, adding that time has come for celebrities and social media influencers to start using their platform to speak out for social issues like racism, inequality, social justice and lasting change in the society. According to him, being an influencer is not enough, he added that it has to be about advocating for peace, unity and change in the lives of the youth and those whose lives need to be touched for the better. The 28-year-old Paris is currently serving in the United States Navy and hopes to continue using his new found fame to help others who are less privileged. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING!