The Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), an economic and private-sector think tank, has applauded the appointment of Dr Doyin Salami as the Chief Economic Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari. The think-tank also set a number of agendas it expects Dr Salami to follow while in office. Dr Salami, CPPE said in a statement signed by its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr Muda Yusuf,  “is bringing to the position a pedigree of intellectualism and robust knowledge of the nexus between sound economic principles, macroeconomic stability, investment growth and the welfare of the citizens. “His appointment perhaps signals the aspiration of President Buhari to reset the economy and correct some glaring distortions that have been undermining investors’ confidence over the last couple of years.  It is imperative to refocus economic management strategy for growth, efficiency, productivity, sustainability and inclusion.” CPPE, however, emphasised that the impact of the appointment would be felt only to the extent that his advice and that of the economic advisory council are adopted and implemented to shape the course of monetary, fiscal and regulatory policies. The think-tank said it expects the chief economic adviser to focus on a 10-point agenda it has set for him, which include the institution of a market based foreign exchange policy framework to correct current distortions bedevilling the foreign exchange market and proposing a sustainable mix of policies to stem the intense inflationary pressures in the economy. Others include ensuring the effective coordination between the fiscal and monetary policies; ensuring synergy between key economic and investment ministries and agencies to ensure policy and regulatory coherence; infusing a general equilibrium mindset in the policy-making processes to ensure a broad comprehension of the impact of economic policies; promoting the reduction of fiscal deficit monetisation because of the profound inflationary outcomes. The agenda also covers promoting the philosophy of a level playing field for all investors in the economy;  fixing the port congestion crisis, cargo clearing constraints and traffic gridlocks along the Lagos ports corridor; fostering a regime of trade facilitation culture among the agencies at our ports and encourage a review of the Cash Reserve Requirement for better financial intermediation in the banking system. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…