In respect to the directive issued by the Honourable Minister of State Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu to the Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat to improve sanitary conditions of abattoirs in the FCT, the Secretariat has commenced immediate clean up of the abattoirs. The Secretary for Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim who supervised and participated in the exercise disclosed that the clean up is in line with the commitment of the Minister of State, FCT to promote public health safety and to ensure that abattoirs operations and premises measure up with required hygienic practices. He further stated that the exercise which will be continuous is taking place simultaneously in all the abattoirs that are under the supervision of the Agric Secretariat. “What you are seeing here today is in response to the directive issued by the Honourable Minister of State who has expressed concern on the State of Abattoirs particularly after the festive season where the abattoirs were full of activities which resulted to the accumulation of huge waste. Already we have mobilised all our Veterinary and Animal health officials to be part of the cleanup and I can assure you that by the end of this week, God willing, the Abattoirs will be totally cleaned” In a related development, the Secretary has met with officials of the FCT Butchers Association to interact with them on the need to cooperate with the Administration in its efforts to discourage the use of tyres in meat processing. He informed the members that the Secretariat is working towards providing them with affordable and eco-friendly alternatives. He warned that the Secretariat will not fold its arms and allow practices that constitute great health hazards to residents. In his words, “The Secretariat has made provisions in the 2022 budget to procure gas flaring appliances devices which are safer for consumers and cost-effective. I hope that you will use your positions to appeal.to your members to adopt the new and safer practices” Also speaking the Director of Veterinary Services Dr Regina Ada Adulugba thanked the Hon. Minister of State for matching her words with action towards repositioning abattoir operations the FCT. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!