Truckers under the aegis of the Council of Maritime Transport Union and Association (COMTUA), on Monday, accused officials of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) electronic call-up system, popularly called ETO of collecting charges along non-port access roads of KLT and Brawal. This is even as the truckers denounced the E-call-up system, stating that it has totally collapsed. In a statement signed, on Monday, by the National President of COMTUA, Adeyinka Aroyewun, the truckers also denounced the movement of trucks from Apapa to Tin-Can by ETO officials. According to the statement, “The attention of the COMTUA, comprising of Ten Federating Unions and Association, has been drawn to the obnoxious and vexatious activities of the Lagos State Enforcement Team which is a clear breach of their mandate to decongest the Apapa Port area using the ETO Scheme. “In fact, and without any doubt, there are multitude of evidences sufficient to cause the eviction of the Head and Members of the enforcement team which has already been provided to the government. “We can boldly confirm that the entire process of ETO has broken down, to the extent that only the revenue generation and extortion aspect of it is prospering. At this junction, it is pertinent to call on Mr Governor to, as a matter of urgency, recall the enforcement team back to the Secretariat because they have failed to discharge their duties. “The problems have grown from gridlock to loss of job. Truck owners are now poorer while the enforcement headship are enriching themselves for obvious political gains. “Our Union including the entire Federating Unions and Associations hereby demands as follows: The Enforcement team has compromised and we REJECT THEM; The movement of trucks from Apapa route to Tin-Can is illegal and must stop now; “We reject payment on Non-port Access road to ETO. KLT and BRAWAL cannot be charged; No payment of demurrage inside garages especially when at Lilly pond. “All these we demand immediately. We shall not be blackmailed anymore.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. ETO officials collecting charges along non-port access roads, Truckers raises alarm 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!