The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Thursday, assured that the Green Chamber will continue to help the transport industry to thrive. Gbajabiamila said the government would continue investing in the sector to improve infrastructure so as to contribute meaningfully to the Nigerian economy. The Speaker who gave the assurance during the commissioning of the national headquarters of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) in Abuja, acknowledged the critical role played by the transport industry in the country. He said the men and women who make up RTEAN play an essential role in facilitating trade and commerce in the country, noting that “Every day, you move millions of people and transport cargo worth billions across the towns, cities and states of our federation. “In this manner, you contribute immensely to the operation of the Nigerian economy,” he said. Gbajabiamila said he accepted to commission the RTEAN national headquarters to acknowledge the vital role of the association and assure them that their value to Nigeria’s economy and the country as a whole is recognised by governments at all levels. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE He said he looked forward to supporting RTEAN and working with them to achieve national development goals. “As you are all aware, the world is still amid a global pandemic that has significantly upset the balance of our world. Here in Nigeria, we are still grappling with the effects of this pandemic on our economy. “The road transport sector, like other sectors, has not been spared from the consequences of the economic contraction. At the same time, you are grappling with regulatory, technological and policy changes that have adversely impacted your businesses and your business model. “Government is not unaware of these realities. We will continue to do what we can to help your industry thrive. We will also continue investing significantly in road transport infrastructure, which will expand your routes and ensure that you can cover more ground quickly, safely and at substantially less cost.” The Speaker encouraged the RTEAN members to understand that they are operating at a time of rapid social and economic change due to technological advancement, changing public tastes and policy and regulatory responses to both. “You cannot standstill. You must be ready to adapt to new realities, modify your practices, and make sure that you thrive in whatever circumstances. “This new RTEAN House stands today as a tribute to your ability as a union to mobilise people and resources to serve noble objectives. It is only through unity and dedication of purpose that you will achieve the best objectives for the men and women who make up your union. Therefore, I encourage you to continue in this regard.” Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Reps will help transport industry to thrive ― Gbajabiamila 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!