THE shares of Studio Press Nigeria Plc and Union Diagnostic and Clinical Services Plc have been delisted from the trading platform of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited. The equities of both companies were removed from the stock exchange on Friday,  according to a circular from the local bourse. The delisting of Studio Press shares from trading on the bourse came after the completion of the transfer of the shares held by minority investors in the firm to the new owners, Federated Resources Nigeria Limited. Federated Resources Nigeria Limited is not interested in being on the stock exchange and has opted to be a private company, which was why it quitted the NGX. “We refer to our market bulletin of December 17, 2021, with reference number: NGXREG/LRD/MB57/21/12/17 wherein the market was notified of the full suspension placed on trading in the shares of Studio Press Nigeria Plc as a result of the scheme of arrangement between Studio Press and its shareholders involving the transfer of the ordinary shares held by minority shareholders to Federated Resources Nigeria Limited. Following the conclusion of the scheme, trading license holders and the investing public are hereby notified that the entire issued share capital of Studio Press Nigeria Plc was delisted from the daily official list of Nigerian Exchange Limited today, Friday, January 7, 2022,” the notice from NGX stated. Meanwhile, Union Diagnostic opted out of the Exchange as a result of the deal it had with Cedar Advisory Partners Limited, which is now in control of the organisation. “We refer to our market bulletin of March 5, 2021, with reference number: NSE/LRD/MB15/21/03/05 wherein the market was notified of the full suspension placed on trading in the shares of Union Diagnostic and Clinical Services Plc as a result of the scheme of arrangement between Union Diagnostic and Cedar Advisory Partners Limited. “Following the conclusion of the scheme, trading license holders and the investing public are hereby notified that the entire issued share capital of Union Diagnostic and Clinical Services Plc was delisted from the daily official list of Nigerian Exchange Limited today, Friday, January 7, 2022,” the second disclosure stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…