President Muhammadu Buhari has warmly felicitated former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, on his 89th birthday, which comes up Tuesday. According to a statement issued by Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity) Monday, the president joined family and friends to celebrate with the diplomat, “whose contributions to Nigeria and the international comity will continue to stand out.” President Buhari affirmed that the international diplomat, who started as a Foreign Service Officer, has consistently followed and projected the wellbeing of his country, working assiduously to build his local community and staying vocal in counselling leaders on way forward. The statement added that as the diplomat turns 89, the President extolled his foresight, courage and diligence in pursuing his vision for a more just and peaceful world. President Buhari prayed that the Almighty God will continue to strengthen the renowned international diplomat and his family. Buhari also sent warm greetings to former Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Breweries Plc, Elder Felix Ohiwerei, on his 85th birthday, which comes up Tuesday The president congratulated him for historic service in the corporate world, and, now, full dedication to working for God and the growth of the church. According to a statement issued by Femi Adesina Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity) Monday, the president noted the contributions of the corporate leader, administrator and renowned boardroom guru, to the development of the country, working variously with Unilever, London, UAC Foods, and Virgin Nigeria and chairing some public institutions. President Buhari expressed the belief that Ohewerei’s visionary leadership style, and humble beginnings as a teacher, played a major role in his rise on the corporate ladder, utilising his experience in managing people and resources to innovatively set targets and get results. As the administrator and philanthropist turn 85, President salutes his interest in raising leaders in the country, accepting to serve as Chairman, Friendship Bible Fellowship, National Director, Full Gospel Businessmen Fellowship International, Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of Council, University of Ibadan and Chairman, Board of Trustees of Redeemer’s University. Buhari prayed for the good health of former Chairman of the Nigerian Breweries Plc, and welfare of his family. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Buhari felicitates Anyaoku, Ohiwere 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!