Nigeria Customs Service, Kebbi State Area Command had intercepted 150 drums of PMS otherwise known as petrol, 389 kg of cannabis sativa, otherwise known as Indian hemp, worth N21.180 million within one week. In a press statement signed and made available to Tribune Online, on Sunday, by the Public Relations Officer of Customs, Malam Nasiru Manga, in Birnin-Kebbi, stated that the seizure was made possible at two different locations within the State based on credible intelligence. Manga stated that operatives of the command while on intelligence patrol on Wednesday, January 5, 2022, along Kyawngwa-Kamba road intercepted one blue Carina E car with registration number UBT 674 MQ with chassis number SB16458K10E009725 loaded with cannabis sativa. The physical explanation of the vehicle according to the statement revealed that it was loaded with 389 parcels inform of Laptops size of 1kg each of cannabis sativa valued at N15.560 million. Similarly, based on credible intelligence, the statement read further, Officers and men of the Area Command on Friday, January 7, 2022, scuttled the attempt of the daredevil smugglers of petroleum products at a low-cost water-ways in Yauri Town and consequently evacuated 150 drums, equivalent to 30,000 litres of the products, meant to be smuggled out of the country through the River Niger water-ways, valued at N4.850 million. Commenting on the development, the Controller of Customs in Kebbi State, Comptroller Hafiz Kala lamented that unscrupulous elements in the society took the advantage of a humungous amount of money on subsidies to divert the products for their selfish interest thereby sabotaging government efforts. The Controller, however, restated his desire to not allow smugglers a breathing space in their nefarious activities in his area of Command. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Kebbi Customs intercepts cannabis, PMS worth N21m in one week Kebbi Customs intercepts cannabis, PMS worth N21m in one week