Proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALWs), occasioned by illegal and porous national borders and booming business of gun-running, is the main factor fueling Nigeria’s security challenges, giving rise to criminal activities across the country. The proliferation of SALWs is a global phenomenon arising from conflicts across the globe. According to a study conducted by a Geneva based small arms survey, it is estimated that more than 857 million SALWs are currently in circulation aside from twelve billion rounds of ammunition produced annually. Of these, ten million SALWs are estimated to be in Africa with one million of these in Nigeria. This is connected with previous and on-going conflicts in West and North African countries such as Liberia, Sierra Leone, Cote d’Ivoire, Chad, Niger, Mali and Libya. Proliferation of SALWs aids non-state actors including Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, bandits, militants etc. while undermining state monopoly of instruments of coercion. The threats posed by proliferation of SALWs are of such magnitude that a security strategy which contemplates the monitoring of their flow and use is required. In order to stem the rising tide of illegal weapons circulation, the Federal Government has established the National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons (NCCSALW), domiciled under the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), Major General Babagana Monguno with retired Major General AM Dikko as the pioneer coordinator. Among several functions, the national centre will be responsible for controlling the proliferation of SALWs in Nigeria, implementing strategies, plans and policies for the eradication of SALWs, as well as supervise the implementation of same by relevant government bodies. It will also create and maintain small arms and light weapons register and a national database; receive reports on firearms registration from the Nigeria Police and update the database with such information. Mukhtar Ya’u Madobi, Kano. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…