The Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) has announced January 31 as the deadline for filing of annual income tax returns by employers of labour. In a press statement signed by Monsurat Amasa, Head, Corporate Communications, LIRS, the service said failure to comply with the directive would attract penalties and statutory sanctions as stipulated in section 81 (2) of the Personal Income Tax Act (PITA) Cap P8 LFN 2004 (as amended). The statement quoted the Executive Chairman, LIRS, Mr Ayodele Subair, as urging “all businesses and employers of labour resident within Lagos State, to file their annual income tax returns on or before January 31, 2022, to avoid payment of penalties as well as other statutory sanctions.” The service also urged its customers to file their annual income tax returns through the LIRS e-Tax portal which is the only platform provided for tax remittance in Lagos State. “The e-Tax portal is built for the convenience of taxpayers; it is easy, convenient and safe. All businesses and employers of labour are advised to use the e-Tax portal to file their returns. “Taxpayer ID of all employees is compulsory for the annual income tax returns to be successfully filed on the e-Tax portal. Therefore, all employees and taxable persons within the state are advised to generate a taxpayer ID (where applicable) and file their individual annual income tax returns on the e-Tax portal. “As part of the Agency’s quest to ease compliance obligations for taxpayers, it has designated some staff at its various offices to assist taxpayers with using the e-Tax portal and other filing related issues,” the statement read. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!