Former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, said people of Lagos should expect their votes to count in the 2023 General Election, maintaining that the party had always been rigged out in past elections through various forms of manipulation, but would be difficult doing that anymore. Chief George gave this assurance in an interview he granted with Tribune Online, saying this would be made possible with the approval granted by President Muhammadu Buhari for electronic transfer of poll results, come 2O23 poll. Lagos State chapter of PDP has been playing an opposition role since 1999 when Nigeria returned to this current democratic dispensation. According to the PDP chieftain, who is also the Atona Oodua of Yoruba land, the electronic transfer of poll results, which is part of the Amendment to Electoral Act recently signed into law by the president, will substantially remove and reduce the various manipulation to election result as delivered by voters who came out to exercise their franchise. This was just as George described the current practice of vote casting and collation of results as rotten, archaic, mundane and terrible, recalling sadly how the 2019 elections in Lagos went as people were beaten, and changing of results recorded, adding that PDP won the last poll exercise in Lagos, but was rigged out. “Now, the system we were running and the electoral process was rotten, archaic, mundane, terrible, I told you, ah! You go and vote, you go with your PVC card, you swap it, it is you, yes. “They gave you the ballot paper, you picked and you go and vote, and you go back home. This electronic transfer, as you vote, you press the button you want, it shows. The ‘magomago’ would be substantially removed and reduced. No human interferences anymore,” he said. “When they say they (APC) has always won in the state, which state? You saw what happened in Lagos, how they were beaten people and doing all sorts of things, and changing the results in the last elections, yeah. We won here,” he added. The PDP chieftain further recalled that he led his party to victory in all the six states in South-West in 2003, but noted that someone, who he refused to mention had come to apologize that he was the one that changed the Lagos result to allow then Alliance for Democracy (AD)- led government continue in office in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!