The management of International Brewery Ltd (IBL), Ilesa, Osun State has started counting losses following the fire outbreak that razed down a production apartment of the company. The incident which destroyed property worth millions, took firefighters about an hour before they could quench the fierce fire that engulfed the company. Investigations to the establishment on Saturday revealed that it was the depot of the brewery that went to flame after cigarette heads dropped around the area that caused the fire outbreak. Speaking on the development, the state firefighter public relations officer, Mr Adekunle Ibrahim, stated that, it was the depot of the company where production bottles are stored that got razed by the fire. According to him, “We are suspecting that cigarette heads dropped around the area that caused the fire. “Our men are still on the ground to quench the fire, although, the fire is still burning but it is under control. There is no record of casualty. “Both the state and federal fire services who were on ground to put the fire under the control got information of the incident late at night of Friday,” he concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Millions of naira destroyed  Millions of naira destroyed Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Millions of naira destroyed Millions of naira destroyed lions of naira destroyed