An Awka-based pharmacist, Mrs Oby Onuko, has cautioned mothers to desist from giving unnecessary medications to their babies that are less than twelve months old as it could harm their livers, kidneys and other vital organs. Pharmacist Onuko who spoke to journalists in her office in Awka, Anambra State, over the weekend, said that it is every mother’s desire to ensure the wellbeing of her child, but regretted that some mothers sometimes self-medicate their babies and in turn cause more harm than good to such children. The medical expert noted that they do this out of their own instincts, even when such babies are not showing any sign or symptoms for the need of such drugs, thereby damaging their livers and kidneys. She described it as dangerous where nursing mothers start giving their newborns teething drugs so that when they start teething, there won’t be any discomfort and urged them to stop such practice to save their babies from health issues. She revealed that what the nursing mothers do when they give unnecessary medications to their children, is simply to stress and over-work the children’s delicate liver and kidney which could cause more problems for them in the future. She, therefore, advised mothers to always seek the assistance of medical experts in whatever medication they give or wish to give to their newborn babies and children for the overall good of both the babies and their families. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. self-medication of babies | self-medication of babies | How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!