Operation Safe Haven in charge of security in Plateau Stare has arrested a gang of kidnap syndicates behind a series of kidnappings in the state and is also believed to have participated in the recent Jos jailbreak. The Command Information Officer, Major Takwa in a statement said the syndicate met its waterloo when troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN tracked them to Gyero general area where they plan and carry out their nefarious activities. According to him, the kidnappers on sighting the troops opened fire adding that OPSH troops responded with superior firepower resulting in the neutralisation of 3 notorious kidnappers. Items recovered from the syndicate includes one AK-47 Rifle, 2 AK-47 rifle magazines, 101 live rounds of 7. 62mm ammunition and one tricycle (Keke Napep). Other items recovered include one itel phone, one tecno phone, 2 sharp knives and 2 military head warmers. The Commander, Operation SAFE HAVEN, Major General Ibrahim Ali warned kidnappers and perpetrators of evil to stay clear of Plateau State as he has restated his determination to make the state unbearable for all criminals to operate. General Ali further urged law-abiding citizens to cooperate with security agencies and promptly report any suspicious movement in their area. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Troops neutralise kidnap syndicate  Troops neutralise kidnap syndicate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Troops neutralise kidnap syndicate  Troops neutralise kidnap syndicate 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!