The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has rejected the notice of primary for Ekiti State governorship election submitted by the Democratic People’s Congress (DPC) on January 5, 2022. The party said it would seek redress in court as its purported deregistration by INEC on February 6, 2020, had been nullified by the Court of Appeal in August 2020 and that the judgment had not been vacated by any court of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria. In a statement signed by the national chairman of the party, Olusegun Peters, it insisted on participating in the Ekiti governorship election and warned INEC against derailing the nation’s frail democracy by its flagrant disobedience to court judgments. The statement reads, “The party said the court is a temple of justice where aggrieved people seek redress against injustices meted to them and vowed to resist impunity, rascality and recklessness by the commission. “It is imperative that the nation’s political space should be widened and not suffocated by INEC in a naked show of power in violation of citizens’ fundamental rights as provided in the 1999 constitution as amended.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…