The Atobaase of Yorubaland, Dr. Babajide Agunbiade, FNSE, in a goodwill message, has asked newly installed traditional chiefs at Fiditi, Afijio Local Government of Oyo State, to support the Onifiditi of Fiditi. Please see the full text of his goodwill message to the conferment of newly installed traditional chiefs of Otun Onifiditi, Agba Akin, Abese, and Iyalode below:
-His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa, Oba Sakiru Oyewole Akanni Oyelere, Ajani -Eedu II, Agbadewolu I, OniFiditi Of Fiditi.
-Ekerin Of Fiditi – Chief Adegbola John Oladiran
-Balogun of Fiditi – Chief Ayuba Oyedutan
-All honorary Chiefs here present
-My lord temporal and spiritual
-President, Fiditi Progressive Union
-Distinguished ladies and gentlemen Goodwill message from His Majesty, Dr. Babajide Agunbiade FNSE, FIISE, FSUT. The Atóbaáse Of Yorubaland.
Delivered on the 7th of January, 2021, on the occasion of the conferment of traditional titles of Otun OniFiditi, Agba-Akin, Iya lode, and Abese of Fiditi by His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa, Oba Sakiru Oyewole Akanni Oyelere, Ajani -Eedu II, Agbadewolu I, OniFiditi Of Fiditi. First of all, I want to thank God almighty, the quintessence of purity, for making it possible for us to see this day. I also want to thank His Excellency, Executive Governor of Oyo State Engr. Seyi Makinde for the excellent work he is doing as Oyo State Governor and his love of Fiditi. I want to thank my royal father, His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr) Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, Iku Baba Yeye. J.P, CFR, L.L. D. Oba Yoruba, the Alaafin Of Oyo for his love and persistence in ensuring that Fiditi has a King. As we all know, the last 13 years have been an extremely difficult one for Fiditi. We were subject to scorn and ridicule amongst the committee of towns and communities because of the deteriorating state of our town occasioned by a lack of a leader. Our town was largely abandoned, and our lands were being aggressively encroached upon by dubious and unscrupulous people from good and distinguished communities such as Agwo and Iroko.
The town was in a state of despair, and our infrastructures were crumbling. ALSO READ:  Tension in Ondo community as herdsmen kill three, set community ablaze On the 18th of October of 2021, after emerging through a due and extremely rigorous process, His Excellency, Executive Governor of Oyo State Engr. Seyi Makinde presented the instrument and staff of office to His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa, Oba Sakiru Oyewole Akanni Oyelere, Ajani -Eedu II, Agbadewolu I, as the OniFiditi Of Fiditi. These instrument and staff of office are the only 2 things that every King in Nigeria possesses that gives them their legitimacy and makes them ruler over their people. Since his ascension to the throne of his forefathers, Oba Oyelere has demonstrated uncommon intellect, bravery, leadership and has brought rapid and positive change to Fiditi at a rate we all did not see coming. We thank his Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa Oba Oyelere, for the “ategun Alafia,” peace and tranquillity that finally began to rein in Fiditi. I want to congratulate the traditional Chiefs on their ascension to the traditional titles of their forefathers. I want to appeal to them to join hands with His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa Oba Oyelere, for the development of Fiditi and continue to be loyal to His Royal Majesty at all times and never to betray him. I want the incoming traditional chiefs to support His Royal Majesty, Alayeluwa, Oba Sakiru Oyewole Akanni Oyelere, Ajani -Eedu II, Agbadewolu I, OniFiditi Of Fiditi a direct descendant of Asu the same way their forefathers supported Asu, the founder of Fiditi. I congratulate the following accomplished, deserving Fiditians on the occasion of their conferment of historic traditional titles.
1, Otun Oba of Fiditi -Chief Oyelami Ayansola Peter
2, Agbaakin of Fiditi – High Chief Orishabiyi Omotoyebi Peter
3, lyalode of Fiditi – Chief Mrs. Akano Olufunmike Rachael.
4, Abese of Fiditi. Chief Emmanuel Adekunle Adeniyi Tela Gbogbo omo Fiditi ooo, epanupo eni Fiditi oni baje ooo! Ni asiko Oba Sakiru Oyewole Akanni Oyelere igba Ile wa koni fo be awo ile wa koni faya. Igi ki da loko kopa ara ile be ni aja ki jin kopa ero ona, lojo tebi baunpa ile aonisi nile, lojo tebi baunpa onan aonirin lonan (AMIN) E bami ki gbo gbo ara Ile-o,
Olorun atun Ile Ati ona gbo wa se o,
Otin dara, ko dara mo, olorun ko ni se ni ipin wa o,
Eni kan kon wa o ni sonu o,
Olorun ko ni ba da da gbogbo wa je o,
Ako ere Oko de ile o. Ati ere Ati oju owo a ko de ile-o,
A jeun Omo o,
Ari eyin Ota, a reyin odi o,
Ile Oni le wa o, ona ni na wa o. Thank you very much, God bless you.
Dr. Babajide Agunbiade, FNSE, FIISE, FSUT
Atóbaáse Ilè Yorùbá NIGERIAN TRIBUNE