Against the backdrop of incessant jailbreaks in the country, the Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, on Monday, in Ibadan declared that henceforth anybody or group of individuals who attempt to breach correctional facility anywhere in Nigeria would not live to tell the story. He charged security agencies, most especially custodial officers to shoot dead any hoodlum or group of criminals attempting to break into any correctional facility in the country. Addressing custodial officers at Nigerian Correctional Service, Agodi Custodial Centre, in Ibadan, Oyo State, Aregbesola said “the most important thing is the effective security and impregnability of this facility. This is a red zone.” According to him, “whoever attempt for any reason to breach this facility is already dead. He is on a suicide mission. He must not live to tell the story. Any effort to breach our facility is not acceptable. Don’t shoot to disable or injure, shoot to kill. “Correctional Service is an institution at the tail end of the criminal administration of justice in the implementation of court judgement delivered. You as custodial officers must ensure the implementation of this judgement and ensure the reformation of convicts. “This is the totality of the embodiment of a state to guarantee peace and security of the people. The Federal Government would do more on your welfare and make you happy so that your service would be worthwhile. “As officers, you must be effective and efficient in preventing the penetration of correctional centres. You must have the capacity to repel viciously any attempt to break into custodial facility. “I must commend you for your work in preventing any COVID-19 in your facility. In your facility, you have not recorded a single case of the pandemic. If laurels are to be given, your custodial centre would be usually rewarded,” Aregbesola remarked. The minister, who later entered the premises of Agodi Custodial Centre said visible efforts were being made to decongest correctional facilities in the country, just as he directed the management of Agodi Custodial Centre to compile list of inmates, who are the facility over inability to pay court fines. He explained that their names after compilation would be sent to wealthy Nigerians, who can pay off their fines so that they can be freed with a view to decongest correctional facilities in the country. Aregbesola later visited Maximum Security Custodial Centre at Olomi/Olojuoro Road, where he inspected the infrastructure and other facilities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Anyone, group attempting to break into prison won’t live to tell the story ― Aregbesola Anyone, group attempting to break into prison won’t live to tell the story ― Aregbesola 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!