THE Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN) has announced to all Authorised Dealers and the general public that  e-Valuator and e-Invoice has been introduced in import/export operations. This replaces hard copy final invoice as part of the documentation required for all import and export transactions. This, according to the bank, is in furtherance to the circular referenced TED/FEM/FPC/GEN/01/005 dated August 5, 2020. Specifically, effective February 1, 2022 all import and export operations will require the submission of an electronic invoice (e-Invoice) authenticated by the Authorised Dealer Banks  on the Nigeria single window portal – Trade Monitoring System (TRMS). This new regulation is primarily aimed at achieving accurate value from import and export items in and out of Nigeria. The system would operate on a Global Price Verification Mechanism guided by a benchmark price. The benchmark price is the actual spot market price obtainable at the time of consummation of invoicing, in that market where the goods are traded. CBN said imports and exports with unit prices that are more than 2.5 per cent of the verified global checkmate prices would be queried and will not be allowed for successful completion of either form M or Form NXP as the case may be. Accordingly, the use of e-Invoice shall be subject to the following guidelines; “Products that are more than 2.5 per cent around the vertical price would be queried and will not be allowed successful completion of Form M or Form NXP as the case may be; an importer/exporter of goods into Nigeria shall ensure that the purchase/sale contract with a foreign supplier/buyer stipulates compliance with the obligations set out in this regulation and that the supplier’s/seller’s invoice must be submitted in electronic format and authenticated by Authorised Dealer Bank (ADB) as part of the documentation for payment. “No importer/exporter may effect payment to the credit of any foreign supplier unless the electronic invoice has been authenticated by Authorised Dealer Banks presented together with the relevant documents for payment.” The content of the electronic invoice authenticated by Authorised Dealer Banks is only advisory for the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS); a supplier/buyer of goods or services for import/export operations into or out of Nigeria is required to register on a dedicated electronic portal provided by CBN and operated by CBN’s agent service providers as in the operational manual for Form M and Form NXP e-Invoicing.” The CBN said following satisfactory registration and authentication, CBN appointed service provider shall deliver a verification report and digital certificate to the supplier/buyer, which is valid for one year from the date of issuance. Supplier shall use the digital certificate for signing any e-invoice to be submitted. “Following satisfactory registration and authentication, the supplier/buyer is required to register or submit e-invoices in the dedicated portal for their validation and authentication as specified by the CBN. “The CBN appointed service provider shall deliver the authenticated e-invoices to the supplier/buyer for transmission to the buyer and negotiation of payment. CBN appointed service provider shall additionally transmit the e-invoices to Nigeria single window portal – Trade Monitoring system (TRMS). “An annual subscription fee of $350 is charged per authentication of suppliers on the system; supplier/buyer is advised that an electronic invoice that has been authenticated is required for payment. Any printed version of the electronic invoice will display a QR code to permit verification of its authenticity online,” it stated. However, the following import and export operations are exempted from the submission of e-invoices: “All individual invoices with a value of less than USD10,000 (or its equivalent in another currency), except where suppliers have an annual cumulative invoicing value equal to or above $500,000 (or its equivalent in another currency) they shall submit e-invoices for all their operations, regardless of the individual value of an invoice,” the apex bank noted. “Import and export transactions made by all security agencies in the country; supplies to diplomatic and consular missions and supplies to international agencies dependent on the United Nations. Donations made by foreign governments or international organisations to foundations, charities and recognised humanitarian organisations. Goods directly supplied by a foreign government,” it observed. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!