A former lawmaker representing Ibadan Northwest/Southwest Federal Constituency, Honourable Saheed Akinade-Fijabi, has expressed profound sadness on the shocking demise of a former governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Alao Akala. Fijabi, in a statement, said although death is inevitable, saying this is a most painful and shocking one for him despite spending some quality time with the deceased on Saturday. Fijabi added that Akala’s role as a person was beyond that of a political leader, he was a father to all in Oyo APC and Nigeria. “I don’t know what to make of this news, to say it is shocking is an understatement. I can’t begin to understand how hard his death will be for us in Oyo State. “I hope we find the strength to get through it. No one expected this. We know everyone will die but we did wish that our leader and father, Otunba Akala would spend more time with us. His wisdom was profound, his wealth of experience was unmatchable, his generosity was boundless and we will miss him very much. “My heart bleeds for this loss of our leader and father. He was a pillar of strength. “It’s indeed a sad one for me personally and for the party in general. I pray that his soul finds a happy repose and God comforts his kinsmen in Ogbomoso and his immediate family on this great irreplaceable loss,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari.