Seven governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress on Thursday morning staged a protest at the party secretariat in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti state capital calling for the cancellation of the scheduled direct primary election over alleged compromise. The aspirants, Opeyemi Bamidele, Dayo Adeyeye, Femi Bamisile, Kayode Ojo, Bamidele Faparusi, Olusola Afolabi and Demola Popoola told journalists that the primary election committee has allegedly compromised the process by handing over result sheets to loyalists of Govenor Kayode Fayemi to the advantage of one of the aspirants, Biodun Oyebanji across the 16 local government areas. They called on the leadership of the party to mandate the election committee under the leadership of Jigawa state Governor, Abubakar Badaru to suspend the process in the interest of the party, saying ” we will destroy APC in Ekiti.” Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  Ekiti APC primary: Seven aspirants protest over alleged compromise  Ekiti APC primary: Seven aspirants protest over alleged compromise  Ekiti APC primary: Seven aspirants protest over alleged compromise  Ekiti APC primary: Seven aspirants protest over alleged compromise. How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!