The vice chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Professor Joseph Fuwape, has advised newly admitted students of the institution to acquire innovative skills that will give them edge after graduation. He gave the advice during the 38th matriculation ceremony organized for 3,834 new students for the 2020/2021 academic session, held in the Obafemi Awolowo Auditorium of the university on Friday, 14th January 2022. Fuwape said it was important for the new students to follow in the tradition of their predecessors by acquiring new skills that would position them to become key players in the society after graduation. He said the university has the wherewithal, in terms of experienced faculty members and facilities, to lead them on the path of innovative skill acquisition, and would continue to train students whose skills will be required in a constantly changing society and who can hold their own in any part of the world. Fuwape said, “The university is committed to its vision of being one of the best universities of technology in the world, and as such will leave no stone unturned at ensuring quality teaching to empower you with new skills. “There are lots of opportunities that will help you to achieve your career projections, acquire new skills and connect with new friends. In addition to lectures and workshops, your social interaction and relationship are very important in optimizing your university experience.” The vice chancellor reminded the students of the need for hard work, saying the distance between matriculation and convocation is not very wide. He said “I urge you to avail yourself of the immense resources and facilities that are available in the university to achieve your laudable dream. I challenge you to position yourselves for success, create your own reality and be committed to your dream.” Fuwape warned the students not to procrastinate or waste time when it comes to delivering on assigned work and projects. “One of the important things in the university is to get your work done on time. The university will ensure you enjoy a conducive learning environment all through your stay. “I therefore urge you to give due diligence to your study and avail yourselves of the immense learning resources available on campus,” he added. Professor Fuwape reiterated FUTA’s zero tolerance for vices, enjoining the new students to eschew all forms of social vices such as examination malpractices, academic fraud, cultism, bullying, sexual harassment and disruptive post on social media, indiscipline, and other despicable activities. He said the university will wield the big stick whenever necessary to checkmate anti-social behavior, and that there would be no compromise on discipline as the students would be judged on academic performance and good character in order to earn their certificate. Speaking on the university’s modest outstanding achievements and collaboration with world class institutions, Fuwape said “FUTA has recorded several milestones of distinction which have further established and confirmed its status as a Centre of Excellence. The university can boast of a high number of outstanding faculty members and students who have won international laurels and recognitions. He cited the university’s partnership for awarding joint degree between FUTA and the Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University (FAMU) from which 48 students have benefited at both master and doctoral degree levels. The university also has a partnership with Jaen University in Spain where students have the opportunity of embarking on student work experience for five months.” He said the new students were free to tap into any of the existing opportunities for their academic progression. The registrar, Mr. Richard Arifalo, administered the matriculation oath on the students after presentation by the Deans of Schools. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!