The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has postponed the screening of its gubernatorial aspirants in the forthcoming Osun state election. The exercise was early scheduled for Wednesday, January 19, 2022 The party has now informed the aspirants and critical stakeholders in the state that the screening has been moved to Monday, January 24, 2022. The venue of the exercise, however, remains the PDP National Secretariat, Abuja at 10 AM prompt. A statement issued by Hon. Umar M. Bature, PDP National Organizing Secretary, advised the aspirants and critical stakeholders in Osun state to note the change of date and be guided accordingly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  PDP shifts Osun screening of gubernatorial aspirants  PDP shifts Osun screening of gubernatorial aspirants  PDP shifts Osun screening of gubernatorial aspirants  PDP shifts Osun screening of gubernatorial aspirants [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!