Although President Muhammadu Buhari has good intentions for the people and Nigeria, his administration missed the opportunity to formulate good policies in its first six months and wasted away without a cabinet and ministers that are expected to be genuine reformers and technocrats of international repute. Interestingly, President Buhari was an ardent critic of successive administrations in the country since 2002 for wrongdoing or formulation of anti-masses policies. His criticism of successive administrations raised great expectations of citizens that the Buhari administration’s change mantra would halt the dangerous drift of Nigeria towards a failed state. Challenges in the country have become extremely difficult for the administration to contend with, as Mr. President has taken the country through many challenges. The Buhari administration has been struggling to keep Nigeria together through odds such as insecurity, poor economy, poverty, etc. No one disputes Buhari’s reputation of being incorruptible. At the inception of the administration Nigerians anticipated that the president would work with the National Assembly to remove the immunity clause from the constitution. This constitutional provision remains one of the challenges of curbing financial infractions and corruption in governance. Therefore, the president needs to make a difference in dealing with unpatriotic individuals because the Buhari fear factor has disappeared. Let’s enjoy your status of a retired General and war veteran. Truth is that Buhari has 17 months to make things better for the sake of himself and the generations after him. These are not the best of times in the country’s history, the president and those who love him, indeed, Nigerians at large are worried. Abba Dukawa, Kano. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…