The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has disclosed that more than 300,000 children have been killed in Nigeria’s North-East, while over one million have been displaced in the protracted armed conflict for more than 12 years. The UN Agency also said in Borno State alone, more than 330,389 children are out of school, according to the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC). UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, made this known, on Tuesday, while congratulating children in Borno State as the Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, on Monday, signed the Borno State Child Protection Bill into law. He said the development was a victory for the children of Borno, including recognition of a legal framework for their protection against recruitment and use by armed groups, child labour and sexual abuse, among other violations of their rights. Governor Zulum signed the Borno State Child Protection Bill into law, on Monday, marking an end to years of efforts to provide a legal framework that recognises the rights of children in the state to education, health and protection from all forms of abuse. Hawkins said: “With the Child Protection Bill signed into law, Borno becomes the 29th state in Nigeria to domesticate the Child Rights Act enacted by the Federal Government in 2003. Just seven states – Adamawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Kebbi, Yobe, Kano and the Zamfara States – have yet to domesticate the Act. “Borno State has remained the epicentre of protracted armed conflict for more than 12 years. Over 300,000 children have been killed in Nigeria’s North-East, while over one million have been displaced. “In Borno State, 330,389 children are out of school, according to the Universal Basic Education Commission. “As with Adamawa and Yobe States, the conflict has also impacted essential health, nutrition and child protection services. He added that “Governor Zulum has done the right thing – and the children of Borno State are the big winners. I commend Governor Zulum, the Borno State House of Assembly and other stakeholders who worked tirelessly to domesticate the Child Rights Act in Borno State.” The part of the statement read: “UNICEF expects that stakeholders will go on to enforce the rights of children as prescribed in the Borno State Child Protection Law.” “For too long, children in Borno State have suffered the consequences of protracted conflict. Children have died or been maimed from unexploded devices, been kidnapped and recruited and used by armed groups. “Girls have been especially impacted, including by sexual abuse and violence. The Borno State Child Protection Law will offer these children hope that things can change and perpetrators held accountable. “UNICEF calls on other states in the north-east and indeed across the country to expedite action to domesticate and implement the Federal Child Rights Act. It is unacceptable that armed conflict, displacement, violence, poverty and other abuses continue to turn Nigerian children into direct and indirect victims of conflict and other human rights violations,’’ said Peter Hawkins. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.Insurgency: Over 300,000 children killed in North-East ― UNICEF Insurgency: Over 300,000 children killed in North-East ― UNICEF