The Animal Protection Organization of Nigeria (APON), a fast-rising non-profit organisation, with a focus on animal protection and is known for its corporate and institutional campaign has reinstated its campaign on the welfare of laying hens as part of its activities for 2022. It will be recalled that in 2021, APON embarked on various campaigns to improve the lives of terrestrial animals and marine life enrichment. They have, however, announced they have more on their sleeves in 2022. “APON under my leadership will always strive hard to ensure animals are treated fairly. We have begun projects addressing animal cruelty and I’m very optimistic that the impact of our work will make a large difference for animals,” said Joseph Odika, the executive director of APON. “APON will intensify its cage-free campaign (laying hens’ welfare campaign) in 2022. We began this project in 2021 in Ibadan and Lagos. It’s spreading like wildfire. This year, we will extend it to Osun State, where there are large egg demand, supply and production. “This year also, we shall embark on intensive research into the welfare of farmed fish in Nigeria with our partner, One Health Development Initiative (OHDI). We have begun a skeletal survey already. It’s imperative that we conduct this research with the aim to improve the welfare of aqua-cultural fishes in Nigeria. “We will make sure the youths are carried along and make them understand the concept and principles of animal welfare. This is why they form the largest audience of our project. We shall carry them along with wildlife conservation, anti-cruelty campaign, Biodiversity enrichment, climate action, nutrition and many more,” APON said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Animal protection activists  Animal protection activists Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Animal protection activists  Animal protection activists How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!