President Muhammadu Buhari has not directed anyone in his administration to implement the removal of petroleum subsidy, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan has said. He made the declaration after a meeting with the president at the presidential villa, Abuja on Tuesday, saying that he had gone to convey the feeling of constituents to him on some concerns including the proposed removal of subsidy. Recall that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, had announced last October that the Federal Government made provision for petrol subsidy only for the first six months of 2022 as the government looked towards complete deregulation of the sector. “In our 2022 budget, we only factored in subsidy for the first half of the year; the second half of the year, we are looking at complete deregulation of the sector, saving foreign exchange and potentially earning more from the oil and gas industry,” Ahmed had said. But speaking to correspondents after the meeting with the President, Lawan said the lawmakers are worried about the different agitation and protests around the country, necessitating the discussion with the President. The Senate President said he was glad to inform Nigerians that Buhari has not told anyone to remove petroleum subsidy. He said: “Well, it will be of interest to Nigerians to hear what I’ve come to discuss with Mr President among several other things. “Many of us are very concerned with the recent agitations, protests, and many citizens were so concerned, our constituents across the country are very concerned that the federal government will remove the petroleum subsidy. And for us, as parliamentarians, as legislators representing the people of Nigeria, this must be of interest to us. “And we’ve just finished our recess, we had gone home to our constituencies and senatorial districts. And will feel the pulse of our people. And I found it necessary to visit Mr President, as the leader of our government and our leader in the country, to discuss this particular issue of concern to Nigerians, and I’m happy to inform Nigerians that Mr President never told anyone that the petroleum subsidy should be removed.” “I know and I agree that the subsidy is very heavy. But I think we must never transfer the burden to the citizens. “I believe that we need to look at the quoted figure of maybe 100 million litres that people claim we’re consuming. Is it real? I mean is it either under-recoveries of subsidy? Is it really 100 million litres per day? How on earth are we consuming that? “We need to look at this critically and see how we can find the truth. Because I am not convinced that within the boundaries of Nigeria we are consuming 100 million litres. Probably neighbouring countries may be benefiting from this. Can’t we do something about it? “It is a failure on us if we are not able to control it, this particular aspect of smuggling of the petrol and then in return, push the burden to the ordinary citizen. Asked what will happen since the 2022 budget does not provide for subsidy, he answered: “No, I’m not going to speculate on that. But I’m telling you, what I know, from my discussions with Mr President, and I don’t want to go beyond that kind of understanding. “He didn’t tell anybody that we should go remove petroleum subsidy. And those of us who represent the people know how people are already stressed over and again, this is going to kill everyone if people don’t say we know is going to be too much for them.” “So, I just want to commend Mr President, that he didn’t order anybody, to say that petroleum subsidy will be removed, even though we know it’s burden. So it’s now our task, as an administration, we must find a solution. Let’s go and lock ourselves somewhere,” he added. The Senate President commended the President for what he said was keeping his philosophy of not to overburden ordinary citizens as he observed that government law is meant to serve the people. He added: “So I want to commend Mr President, for still keeping this philosophy of ensuring that the most ordinary Nigerian do not suffer in any way. “Government is meant to serve people. And the essence of government law we all know is to protect the lives and property and welfare of the people. And that the federal aspect is part of the welfare. “It may not be exactly the way we want it in the implementation of subsidy. But that is our challenge as an administration as a government. “So, we need to come together, both the legislature, the National Assembly, and those people and institutions and organizations that are responsible in dealing with this matter. To find a solution to this.” He dismissed the position of the governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on subsidy removal, noting that the main opposition party had its chance and ought to have done something about it. He argued: “They had their time. They should have done something about it. Now we have to do something about it. I have admitted that the burden is heavy. But I don’t think that the ordinary citizen should be the one to bear the burden. “Those of us in government should come together and find a solution to this including the PDP states. And PDP as a political party, there must be an irreducible minimum level of partisanship. There’s a level at which you should not come down to, because of politics, no. Citizens first, preserve the people, preserve the country, then we can look for any office to govern, but we shouldn’t toy with the lives of our people. I am very happy, very relieved with this meeting with Mr President.” Lawan, however, stressed the need for stakeholders to come together to find solution to the issue of subsidy. “So, we should come together and find a solution to it now It is for our administration, our party, to come together and involve every possible stakeholder and find out how we can reduce this. Because it’s not true that 100 million litres is consumed in Nigeria every day. It isn’t true. It’s not. Oh, no, no, no, no. We have to find a solution to this,” he declared. On the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the Senate President was hopeful that both houses of the National Assembly will pass it on Wednesday and be ready to re-present or to President Buhari by next week. He explained: “Well, I smile because that again, by the grace of God tomorrow both chambers, the Senate and the House of Representatives will pass the bill. And I hope that by before the end of the week, the bill could be brought back to Mr President for his assent. “I hope that but one thing I’m sure by the grace of God is we are passing the bill, the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2010, tomorrow Wednesday the 19th in both chambers, and we are happy that at the end of the day, we have been able to narrow down our differences and arrive at the very patriotic resolution that our country must have a new electoral law that will guide the 2023 general elections in the country, and Nigeria would have everything to benefit from this law. “And for us in the 9th Assembly, the Electoral Act Amendment Bill is one of the major legislative agenda that we wanted to deal with in the 9th National Assembly, and to the glory of God Almighty Allah. by tomorrow (Wednesday), we will be able to pass that bill for Mr President to assent to it. “I hope that the cleaning process will not take more than a day. But if it does, then it has to be early next week. But I’m very optimistic that there is not much to clean because normally when we pass the bill like this, it goes to the legislative drafting unit of the National Assembly. “So, what you have in the National Assembly, as passed, is not the final document that comes to the President.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Buhari never directed petroleum subsidy removal ― Senate President 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!