The residents of Obodoukwu road, along Onitsha-Owerri, Anambra State on Friday count their losses as a petrol tanker fell and sparked into flames destroying several properties worth millions of naira. A source told Tribune Online that the fire started after a petrol tanker conveying petroleum products fell in the commercial city of the state. As of the time of filing this report, it was gathered that the fire which started during the morning hours had raged for about two hours. “We are now afraid because the fire is spreading very fast, and we fear that it may spread to the Relief market,” the source added. Meanwhile, the chief fire Officer in Anambra Fire Service, Mr Martin Agbili who spoke to our correspondent said his men were still battling to save the situation. “You may have to call back much later in the day if you need a true assessment. For now, our men are still battling the fire, and we can only talk about casualty figures or material losses when we are done,” he said. Agbili added: “The fire outbreak was caused by a fallen petrol tanker that caught fire with the help of an ‘akara’ seller by the side of the road. “We received a distress call, and our fire trucks and firefighters were deployed to the fire scene. We did what we can do and we gave our best. The fire is under control now. We must know that this is petrol fire and it spreads very fast due to the combustible nature of its content.” Agbili regretted that his men were also attacked at the scene saying: “I want to appreciate the efforts of the public in assisting in fighting the fire, the firefighters (Anambra State Fire Service, Awka, Nigeria and Federal Fire Service), the Nigeria Police and all other Security Agencies for protecting my men at the fire ground. “Those that destroyed one of our fire trucks and wounded some of our firefighters, you didn’t do well. You must remember that firefighters are humans and not spirits. The law will surely catch up on you directly and indirectly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Residents count losses  Residents count losses Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Residents count losses  Residents count losses