Four persons have been reportedly killed in a renewed attack in the Onicha local government area of Ebonyi State following a standoff between Ukawu and Isinkwo communities. The bodies of the victims were reportedly taken away by their assailants. The four persons killed are said to be from Ukawu. The Ukawu people, a source said, had gone to the beach in the area to fetch sand when they were ambushed by warlords who shot four of them dead instantly. The source who did not want her name in print said those killed include a 32-year-old father of three whose last child is nine months old, Ujebe Offor. She said: “I heard that the people from Ukawu went in a group to the beach to get sand thinking that today being a sit-at-home day there will be no problem. But unfortunately for them, the Ishinkwo people had already who had laid an ambush opened fire on the Ukawu people. “I also gathered that Ukawu people were taken unaware as they went to the beach unarmed. They all scampered for safety but on getting to a meeting point, they discovered that four people were missing. Then someone attested to seeing when they were killed and their corpses were taken away by the attackers. “I learnt that Ukawu people have mobilised to Isinkwo for a reprisal attack and to also demand the corpses of those killed. One of the deceased was Ujebe Offor, mid-30s married, had three children, the last child is about nine months.” Recall that the people of Ukawu and Isinkwo have been in a dispute over land matters with many killed, houses and other properties destroyed. The state government had also taken measures to end bloodletting and destruction in the communities. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah, said that the command was yet to receive information on the matter and promised to contact the police division in the warring communities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!