The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected claims suggesting that it has zoned its 2023 presidential to the north. This followed recent remarks by former Niger state governor and chieftain of the party, Dr Babangida Aliyu, alleging that the party has agreed to re-zone the ticket to the north despite having thrown it open to aspirants from other parts of the country. In a statement issued by the Hon. Debo Ologunagba, the party’s National Publicity Secretary Saturday, the PDP maintained that the claim “is completely misleading as it does not in any way represent the position of our party.” The statement added: “For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP emphatically and unequivocally states that it has not zoned its Presidential ticket to any part of the country. “The PDP is a political party founded on democratic principles and every action of the party, including zoning, is based on extensive consultations, discussions and consideration of all the issues as well as the various tendencies and interests across the nation, with the main objective of ensuring that the unity, peaceful co-existence and development of our nation are reinforced and promoted. The PDP, therefore, urged Nigerians, its teeming members and supporters to completely disregard “the unfounded zoning claims as being peddled.” It also cautioned those behind the claims to desist forthwith. The PDP thanked Nigerians across the board for “the overwhelming interest they have in our party as their sure platform to Rescue and Rebuild our nation from misrule and urge them to remain united and focused as we join forces for the task ahead.” The former Niger state governor made the claim on Friday when the Atiku Support Organisation visited him in Minna. “In our zoning agreement, we have agreed to re-zone the North as requested by others but we have agreed written openly as a result of what has happened that any candidate from any part of the country can now contest this election,” Aliyu had said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…We have not zoned  We have not zoned Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…We have not zoned  We have not zoned