The Joseph Ayo Babalola University (JABU), Ikeji-Arakeji, Osun State, is set to graduate 511 students from various departments with 25 students graduating with first-class honours. The Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Kola Sonaike, who disclosed this during a press conference to herald the 12th Convocation ceremony of the school said 202 of the students graduated with Second class upper, 213 bagged Second class lower, 70 earned third-class honours, while one person graduated with Pass degree. Sonaike said the best graduating students for 2020/2021 academic are David Babalola and Peter Abegunrin of Departments od Computer Science and Law respectively, saying the two students graduated with CGPA 4.97 which is a new record since the establishment of the school some 15 years ago. He also disclosed that “the school will conferring the highest honours on an eminent personality, the President/Chairman of the Council of Chartered Insurance of Nigeria, in the person of Sir. Muftau Olakunle Oyegunle, who has distinguished himself in his service to our nation and the world at large. “He will be honoured with Doctorate degree in Insurance (Honoris Causa) during this Convocation ceremony” He said the 12th Convocation lecture will be delivered by Prof. Kunle Ogunbameru, of the Department of Sociology and Gerontology, Osun State University, on Thursday, with the topic “Removing the risks of Retirement in the New Millennium”. Some of the programmes lined up for the Convocation ceremony include the Reunion Service/ football match slated for Wednesday, 19th January, 2022. He said the Convocation ceremony will come up on Friday, 21st January, 2022, at 11 am. He said the University has recorded unprecedented achievements in the last one year, saying some of the structures had been put in place and will be commissioned during the ceremony. He, however, said that adequate security has been put in place on campus to prevent any incidence that might affect peace and tranquillity in the university, saying the university was leaving no stone unturned to protect the school, students and staff. He said “The price of peace is eternal vigilance. We cannot say because we are a faith-based school and leave our borders open. Adequate security measures have been put in place and staff and students of the Institutions have been advised to report any suspicious movement around the campus. We have closed some entrance into the school and monitor those who come into the university with the aid of technology in identifying who is where at a particular time. “There are other measures we have put in place but the University has ensured 24 hours security all over the campus. Everyone on the campus is advised to be vigilant, even though it is only God who gives ultimate protection.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari CLAIM: Several social media posts claim the United States of America (USA) gave Nigeria’s Federal Government 48 hours to detain suspended Deputy Police Commissioner, Abba Kyari, or face severe sanctions. VERDICT: The claim is false and misleading. The US did not give Nigerian Federal Government 48 hours ultimatum to detain Abba Kyari. 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!