The federal government may today open the trial of the self-acclaimed leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafran (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu in the terrorism charges after his formal arraignment. Exhibits likely to be tendered against Kanu by the government have been brought to the courtroom where the arraignment is scheduled to hold. Also, electronic equipment comprising various cameras have been brought to court and being inspected by the lead counsel to the federal government Mr Shuaib Magaji Labaran. The IPOB leader has just been brought into the courtroom, presided by Justice Binta Nyako and exchanged pleasantries with his lawyers led by Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) A representative of the British High Commissioner billed to watch the trial for the United Kingdom has also been allowed into the courtroom. Details later … YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  FG moves documentary evidence against Nnamdi Kanu to court room  FG moves documentary evidence against Nnamdi Kanu to court room  FG moves documentary evidence against Nnamdi Kanu to court room  FG moves documentary evidence against Nnamdi Kanu to court room 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!