EIGHT days after the last operation by kidnappers on the Lagos-Ibadan highway, during which a driver was killed and four passengers abducted at Onigari axis, the bandits struck again on Saturday and ended up kidnapping three victims at Ishara-Remo axis in Ogun State jurisdiction. Nigerian Tribune learnt that the bandits, about 10 in number, emerged from a bush along the road dressed in military uniform and started shooting sporadically as usual, directing the shots at vehicles and their occupants. While some were able to escape, including a Nollywood actress, Bimpe Akintunde, who wrote a report on her Instagram page, a source told the Nigerian Tribune that a man was caught by the kidnappers but miraculously, he managed to escape from their grips later. Meanwhile, staff members of a company who went to attend a ceremony and were returning home were not so lucky as one of the three vehicles conveying them broke down and the other two vehicles waited for the one that broke down. It was learnt that while repairs were being carried out on the faulty one, the kidnappers suddenly emerged from a nearby bush and abducted three of the occupants of the vehicles. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Ogun State command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the abduction of three persons. He, however, said that the command had started working on it, with the anti-kidnapping unit, vigilantes and hunters, combing the bush to get the perpetrators and rescue the victims. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! 100% Natural Herbs to Finally End Premature Ejaculation, Weak Erection and Small Manhood. >>Click Here Now! << How Adetunji Made Over N20million In 2021 From Football Trading. Click Here To Join His Team!