Tension is mounting in the spare parts market of Akure, in the Ondo State capital, over the leadership crisis that has engulfed the market, with the traders calling on authorities to intervene before the matter assumed a dangerous dimension. The crisis in the market was a result of an accusation of imposition of the Chairman of the Spare parts market, Kayode Olorunfemi, by the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, saying the Chairman had been at helms of affairs for the past eleven years. Subsequently, some traders of the market protested on Monday morning, over what they termed “imposition of the Chairman” by Oba Aladelusi. Armed with placards of various inscriptions, the traders called on the authorities to wade into the crisis by removing the Chairman, saying he had been installed as the traditional leader of the market and should relinquish the Chairmanship position after forcefully staying in office for eleven years. Speaking on behalf of the protesting traders, Kole Amueyinoge, said “we are tired of the continued imposition of Kayode Olorunfemi on us. We have dragged him before Deji of Akure who appealed to us to give him 12 months to wind up his tenure. According to him, the embattled chairman refused to vacate office despite spending eleven years, adding that the traditional ruler was aiding crisis in the market by insisting that the embattled chairman should continue in office. “We also visited the local government authorities who organised a peace meeting with the traders and we all signed a peace accord with Kayode promising to vacate the seat last December, while an interim Committee was put in place. “We are surprised to learn that the Committee has been halted not to conduct an election until further notice and Kayode should continue as our Chairman. “We will resist Kayode to lead the traders in Mojere market, he has caused more atrocities in the market. The Deji of Akure had installed him as the Asoju Oba in the market and should step aside from contesting for the Chairmanship position. “The Deji of Akure should not meddle into the leadership of the market as we pay directly to the local government. The local government is in charge of the market and we have informed them. The traders, however, appealed to the state governor and security agencies to wade into the matter before the matter assumed another dimension. In his reaction, the embattled Chairman, Olorunfemi described the protesting traders as lazy bones, just as he maintained that he remains the Chairman of the spare parts market. He explained that there was no crisis in the market but said those protesting are sponsored thugs who have no business in the market, saying “I am not bothered by their noise, those making noise are not traders in the market. I decided to stay off the market in order not to disrupt the peace in the market”. While reacting to the allegation of imposition, the palace while speaking through the Chief Press Secretary to Deji of Akure, Mr. Micheal Adeyeye, said though the market is a traditional market but said the traditional ruler of Akure has no special interest in any of the candidates jostling for the leadership of the market. According to him, the traders had visited the palace to complain about the development, and a caretaker committee that will steer the affairs of the market had been put in place before the election. Adeyeye said, “the Deji of Akure only installed a traditional leader in the market and not Chairman. He waded into the crisis and a caretaker committee was set up to conduct an election. “But the Committee realized that most traders who traveled during the last Christmas and new year period have not returned and they have to postpone the election till March this year.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army… ICYMI: How We Carried Out The 1993 Nigerian Airways Hijack —Ogunderu On Monday, October 25, 1993, in the heat of June 12 annulment agitations, four Nigerian youngsters, Richard Ajibola Ogunderu, Kabir Adenuga, Benneth Oluwadaisi and Kenny Razak-Lawal, did the unthinkable! They hijacked an Abuja-bound aircraft, the Nigerian Airways airbus A310, and diverted it to Niger Republic. How did they so it? Excerpts… ICYMI: What North Will Not Accept About 2023 Presidency —Prof Mahuta, UDU Don And Kebbi Dev Foundation Chairman Sahabi Danladi Mahuta, a community mobiliser and APC chieftain. Mahuta spoke to select journalists at the sidelines of an Islamic conference in Abuja recently. Excerpts…