National Publicity Secretary of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo (Worldwide), Chief Alex Ogbonnia, speaks with KUNLE ODEREMI on the power shift discourse and especially the Igbo quest for the zoning of the presidency to the South-East in 2023. In recent time, debates over power shift in 2023 have almost relegated the issue of governance to the background as key politicians crisscross the zones. How would you rationalise the trend in the midst of core challenges facing Nigerians? Well, let me respond to the question this way: the issue of power shift has been a norm in Nigeria for a very long time. Power shift, zoning, rotation are mechanics of addressing issues in a diverse country such as Nigeria. The country comprises diverse ethnic groups and the essence of ensuring that there is distribution of power among the diverse interests is to help in stabilising the country. From 1999 to date, the issue of power sharing has been a norm. That is why in 1999, the presidential candidates of the two main parties were zoned to the South-West and Olusegun Obasanjo, after his tenure, ensured that power shifted to the North, that is, Umaru Yar’Adua. Although Yar’Adua died, Nigerians ensured that Goodluck Jonathan took over and after Jonathan, whether he completed his tenure or not, the greater majority moved it to the North. This time, the people want the presidency to come to the South. So, it has been a norm. It is not everything that should be in the constitution. Democracy is more of an art. The spirit of democracy is more than what is written in the constitution. The United Kingdom does not have a written constitution and yet, they have been operating based on conscience, equity, fair play and justice. Anybody who tells you that everything must be captured in the constitution is rather begging the question. Looking at the South, the South-West and the South-South have had it; only the South-East has not tasted power. It is believed that it is the turn of the South-East but unfortunately, it is like the state of the Igbo, where whenever something of importance is coming to them, you see some people manipulating, making efforts to see how they will deprive them of the opportunity. All these manipulation is depriving the Igbo the opportunity they should have to present a leader for Nigeria.  On people being preoccupied with power shift, the problem facing the country is inequity; unjust ways of sharing power. You also find the problem of corruption. Nigerians should realise that the modern world is supposed to be competence-laced leadership. Though competence, knowledge and experience drive societies to the desired destination, you find nepotism playing a big role in Nigeria. You find mediocrity filling the space based on religious and ethnic interests. So, you base your selection or recruitment process on equity and competence. A way of stopping some of these problems we are facing is to bring equity into the system and that equity is that power should go to the South East. When you base your appointment on nepotism or religion, it is corruption because you are depriving someone the opportunity of helping the country. And when your relation is involved in corruption, you can’t even prosecute him because he is related to you. When a system is emphasising competence and record of excellence, you will see that things will start moving.  The contention in certain circles is that power rotation has been in practice since 1999, yet it appers it is all motion and no movement, going by the challenges that have been confronting Nigerians since the military era. Do you think it is still rational to sustain what some have called the turn-by-turn leadership concept? We have variants of democracy all over the world. No two democracies are the same. No two societies are exactly the same. We have more than 300 ethnic groups in Nigeria and we are asking how to manage these diverse interests. It is only when you have peace that prosperity will prevail. I am happy to have been a part of the meeting held in Abuja, where power rotation was decided. The person who spoke for the North then was the late Abubakar Rimi; the person who spoke for the South then was the late Chuba Okadigbo. It was agreed that after Abdulsalami Abubakar (a military head of state) in 1998, power would shift to the South, and Olusegun Obasanjo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) took up power then. Obasanjo worked on that principle and despite the fact that former Governor Peter Odili campaigned vigorously, including Chief Sunday Awoniyi, Obasanjo said a Muslim northerner should be his successor. We have been going on that principle and when it is the turn of the South-East, the need for power rotation, zoning is coming up. Nigerians have come to a consensus that the Igbo are achievers, hardworking, inventive, creative and enterprising. We are thinking of prosperity for Nigeria and I want to assure you that a brilliant Igbo will turn the tables for the country in the interest of all. The Igbo are in all nooks and crannies of the nation. They are not very much attached to their home; they are free spirits; they integrate with any society they find themselves.  It is interesting that many Igbo are seeking the presidential ticket of either the opposition People Democratic Party (PDP) or the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). But some PDP chieftains claim that there is no agreement within the party that power should rotate. Where does the Ohanaeze stand on this? Ohaneaze has told President Muhammadu Buhari to do for Nigerians what Obasanjo did for them in 2007. Obasanjo made sure he handed over to the North. So, we are expecting President Buhari to do what Obasanjo did by handing over to the South. It was not impossible for Obasanjo to support a southern president after him but he supported a northern president to promote power shift with courage and sincerity of purpose. Former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, was saying ‘zoning is not in the constitution’. He is one of the founders of the PDP, which was an aggregation of various interests that came together to form the party. At that time, the former vice president was a prominent member of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) that aggregated into the PDP. And zoning was an important tactic in winning power. Atiku was part of it and among those that made Obasanjo win. Can we ask why he left Jonathan, who was PDP and followed up to ensure that Buhari won? Because he thought it was turn of the North. He is now turning around to say zoning is not in the constitution. It is unfortunate because the Igbo sacrificed their resources to support Atiku when he was running with Peter Obi. If he still has conscience, he should reciprocate the kind gesture of the Igbo. If he adds his voice to the need for power rotation to the Igbo, it will make more meaning and his name will go down in history as a man of conscience. After Buhari won, when you talk about 19 percent and five percent of Buhari, this was because of the voting pattern. What was responsible for the voting pattern? Instead of reciprocating the kind gesture, Atiku is now talking about the constitution. He has not talked about the spirit, ethos, norms and values that really support whatever constitution there is. Constitution is one document written but the spirit of the constitution is often not articulated on paper.  A notable APC politician from the South-East said it was important for the Igbo to move into the mainstream party, that is, the ruling APC, if the zone is really determined to produce president in 2023. Don’t you consider his argument valid? We have five states in the South-East. Two states are APC; two are PDP and one is All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). So, which one is mainstream? Imo and Ebonyi are APC; Abia and Enugu are PDP and Anambra is APGA. If all the states are PDP, then we can begin to talk like that. Chairman, South East Governors Forum, David Umahi, is in the APC. So, you are talking about being in the mainstream, we are already in the mainstream.  Those making the zoning argument say the parties are looking for what they call a winning formula; that the South-East must be ready to pursue its quest to produce the president in that direction, otherwise it might be an exercise in futility…. We must look beyond election. If in 2023 the Igbo are again denied the opportunity to produce the president, guess what will happen! There is sit-at-home in Enugu on Mondays. What is in the mind of everybody is that 2023 is for the Igbo. The moment it collapses, I may seek asylum. The crisis in the South East will continue and crisis in the South East is crisis everywhere. There will not be peace. Anybody in Sokoto thinking that what is happening in the South-East will not affect him is making a mistake. There is the issue of unknown gunmen killing around. What do you think will happen in 2023? So, if by God’s grace, Nigerians listen to us and give us the presidency, you will see some peace. I want to assure you that after four years, you will see prosperity and stability. There is no peace in the South-East because of the way Nigerians are treating the zone.  Lately, some Igbo leaders claimed that members of the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) are not responsible for the frightening security breaches in the South-East; that some elements have hijacked the struggle initiated by the IPOB… Forget about IPOB, call them Igbo youths. They are not happy and they have every reason not to be happy. Looking at the security architecture of the country, is it good that no person from the South-East is heading any of the security services? It is unfair. The Obasanjo government was the one that laid emphasis on merit. He appointed people like Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Professor Charles Soludo and Dr Akinwunmi Adesina on merit. There is the argument that due to the prevailing security situation in the South East, other sections might deem it improper to give the presidency to that zone. They argue that if we should, something else may happen to the corporate existence of the country. People who think that way don’t want to be fair to themselves. If there is any group that is more Nigerian than others, it is Igbo. Look around and you will see structures built by Igbo outside the South East, but in Igbo land, you will not see any building owned by Yoruba. What needs to be done is to shape the country so that poverty can be reduced. Don’t you think the ongoing attempt to amend the constitution could bring succour to every Nigerian? What is clear is that Nigeria should be restructured so that each geopolitical zone can have authority over its revenue and security profile. It will help us to grow; people will be more conscientious about the welfare and wellbeing of the people. Presently, most people are not working; local governments are not functioning. Above all, we should plug loopholes that are enablers for capital flight. For example, you have a situation where each member of the National Assembly has a house abroad and their children are studying abroad, too. We have assembly plants in Nigeria which they do not patronise but they import the latest Japanese cars. That is capital flight. There are lots that need to be done but the restructuring of the country will have great impact on the people. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity