My five-year old son has always been constipated from childhood. Now, he seems to be getting worse with a protruding abdomen. In addition, he can’t go to toilet unless I give him a laxative. Please, advise. Aisha (by SMS) Your son’s case tallies with Hirschsprung’s disease. The condition sometimes occurs in families and might, in some cases, be associated with a genetic mutation. It occurs when nerve cells in the large intestine don’t form completely. Nerves in the large intestine control the muscle contractions that move food through the bowels. Without the contractions, stool stays in the large intestine to cause constipation and in some cases, a swollen stomach and vomiting. Although a disease that is usually detected at birth, the condition could have all along been undetected in your son until now. Since surgery may be required to solve the problem, it will be appreciated if you can let your son see a Pediatrician for an expert assessment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity