The Flour Millers Association of Nigeria (FMAN) has disclosed that not less than 5,000 farmers have been trained on merchandise farming of wheat in Sokoto State. Speaking while unveiling green field day of the new merchandise wheat, the national programme manager of wheat millers association of Nigeria, Aliyu Samaila said the 5,000 farmers were drawn from four local governments area in the state. He said Sokoto State is among the 15 piloted states of the federation where the programme is currently being undergoing. He said the new technology on wheat farming is to encourage more people into the produce. Samaila said the green field day is to showcase the harvest of the new improved way of farming. Meanwhile, the African Development Bank and its counterpart in the Central Bank of Nigeria has assured wheat farmers in Nigeria of their support in order to make it more lucrative and attract more people into farming The bank said its major objective is to improve the agricultural produce in Africa as well as improving on the economy within the African continent. A wheat expert in AfDB, Dr Solomon Assefa, in his remarks disclosed this at Sokoto State wheat farmers’ Green Field day in Sokoto on Wednesday. He maintained that the management of the bank is very much satisfied with what is being achieved in the agricultural sector in Sokoto State. He commended the governor of Sokoto State for sustaining his promise with the AfDB in improving wheat farming and other agricultural produce in the state. Also speaking in his remarks, a representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria, adding that the intervention of the apex bank in the agricultural sector is yielding positive results. He assured farmers in the state that the Central Bank of Nigeria will continue to support them on how to make the farming sector more attractive to the people, especially the youths. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity