Kwara State Police command has arrested a suspected member of a transborder kidnap syndicate in one of the forests located in the Kwara North senatorial district. In a statement by the command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Okasanmi Ajayi, on Friday said that men and officers of the command arrested the suspected kidnapper while in search of some suspected kidnappers that had been hibernating in a forest within Kosubosu in the Baruten local government axis of the state. The Police spokesperson said that the arrest of the suspect, who is an indigene of Benin Republic, was made possible with the assistance of local vigilance men, who he said accompanied the policemen to comb the forest. He also said that dangerous weapons and a large sum of money were some of the items recovered from the suspect. “Acting on an impeccable intelligence, a team of detectives headed by the Divisional Police Officer, Kosubosu, assisted by a local vigilante, stormed the forest within Kosubosu in Baruten axis, in search of some suspected kidnappers hibernating within the forest. “Consequently, a diligent search of the bushes by the police and vigilante team led to the arrest of one Mohammed Alo ‘Male’ a Benin Republic citizen. Items recovered from him include: 1. One locally-made gun, 2. One machete 3. One Jackknife 4. Two telephone handsets of different make, 5. One Bluetooth 6. Cash sum of two million, three hundred thousand naira(N2.300,000:00). “The suspect confessed to being a member of a transborder kidnapping gang, whose other gang members are now in Benin Republic. “The suspect would be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Suspected transborder kidnapper  Suspected transborder kidnapper Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Suspected transborder kidnapper  Suspected transborder kidnapper MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details