The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila on Friday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2022 passed by the National Assembly. Hon. Gbajabiamila said the President’s action was in line with the All Progressives Congress (APC) determination to bequeath a legacy of an improved democracy to Nigerians. Meanwhile, the Civil Society Organisation on Electoral Reforms has expressed overwhelming support for the National Assembly’s position that no political appointee at any level should be a voting delegate or be voted for at the National Convention. This, according to the CSOs became necessary to forestall a situation where the elected and political appointees who often use state resources state’s resources to have an unfair advantage over other contestants. The Speaker also commended members of the National Assembly for standing firm to ensure that the country has a new electoral law that Nigerians would be proud of and for passing another landmark legislation. Hon. Gbajabiamila noted that the new law is a collaborative effort by all stakeholders made up of Civil society organisations, Organised Labour, the Media, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), among others and that this is what happens when all stakeholders work together in the best interest of the country. He said with the signing into law of the new electoral law, the Nigerian electorate would witness an improvement in the country’s electoral process. Hon. Gbajabiamila who expressed optimism that Nigeria’s democracy stands to gain a lot from the new electoral law, however, urged all stakeholders, especially the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that it commences the implementation of the new law in earnest so as to have better elections next year. Speaking exclusively with Tribune Online, Executive Director, Adopt A Goal Initiative, Comrade Ariyo-Dare Atoye expressed CSOs’ overwhelming support for the National Assembly’s position that no political appointee at any level should be a voting delegate or be voted for at the Convention. He said: “Our understanding is that Section 84 (12) is a noble electoral provision that will save the nation the enormous government’s resources and instruments usually cornered by political appointees to advance their elective interests. “Nigeria suffers double-jeopardy from elected and appointed officials who often use the state’s resources to have an unfair advantage over other contestants. “While it is the standard norm in every democracy for elective officials seeking another term of office to remain and vie, however, it is never in the public interest globally for appointees to stay in office once elective interest has been indicated. “In addition to this, we intend to write the National Assembly to insert in the constitution a provision barring someone who has purchased a nomination form from remaining in the office. “Nigeria needs this kind of reformative provision to check the abuse of government resources and create a level playing field for all aspirants. “We therefore believe and agree that no political appointee at any level should be a voting delegate or be voted for at the Convention or Congress of any political party for the nomination of candidates for any election. “However, we will not dissipate energy to dissuade the National Assembly from amending the clause as demanded by the President or criticise the ‘offended Ministers’ if they decide to approach the court. “On the signed Act, it is now apparent that when the people are ready to get something done, no leader or despot can stand in their way, which we have seen with the birth of the electoral act 2022. “We have now shifted our attention to the execution phase of the new electoral act, where we shall support the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure genuine implementation. “The new Act contains informative and progressive clauses that will strengthen the electoral process and guarantee free, fair and credible elections. “It brings the advantage of an electoral instrument that we can use to persuade more Nigerians to vote to address cyclic voter apathy that has made our elections unenviable,” Comrade Atoye noted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Gbajabiamila lauds Buhari  Gbajabiamila lauds Buhari Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Gbajabiamila lauds Buhari  Gbajabiamila lauds Buhari ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity