The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in Ebonyi, Tochukwu Okorie, said his party will no longer allow the Ebonyi State Government to continue to pocket the Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC) and use it as an appendage of the All Progressives Congress Party (APC). According to Okorie, the state belongs to all Ebonyians. He then charged the APC led government in the state to respect the rights of other indigenes. Okorie gave the charge in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen in Abakaliki on Saturday where he condemned the conduct of IPAC election held on Friday at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters, Abakaliki. The statement reads “On February 1, 2022 I got a call suggesting that the election of executive members of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Ebonyi state chapter, was going to be held in Abakaliki on the Friday, February 4, 2022. I made an effort and got through to the National Organizing Secretary of IPAC, Mr. Wale Martins who confirmed the rumour. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Notwithstanding our protests that the PDP had not been notified of any IPAC elections planned for Ebonyi State, a team from Abuja actually showed up in Abakaliki on Friday and called me to say they were in Abakaliki to conduct IPAC elections. I vehemently opposed the idea on the grounds that PDP was not notified and could not be justifiably excluded from the process. “We wrote a formal letter to the so-called election committee requesting that the election be suspended or postponed to allow for an inclusive exercise. They however went ahead with some persons that had been randomly selected and planted by the Ebonyi State government purporting to represent various political parties. “We state unequivocally that the purported election was a sham as it grossly falls short of all indices of a credible election having been hijacked by the state government. “The purported election of IPAC executives on Friday February 4, 2022 cannot stand and therefore will be vigorously challenged to the highest level in the land. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will no longer allow the Ebonyi State government to continue to pocket IPAC and use it as an appendage of the APC. This state belongs to all Ebonyians and the government must learn to respect that.”  MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details