Two persons, suspected to be Yahoo boys, have been crushed to death in a fatal accident in Delta State. The victims were in a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) alongside two others who survived the incident. The accident happened on Thursday afternoon when the black Lexus 350 SUV with Registration No. BWR-975-CK rammed into a stationary truck between Effutor and Ekiugbo junction, along the East-West road, in Ughelli, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. The SUV was said to be coming in top speed from Agbarho and was headed towards Ughelli while the stationary trailer was parked by the roadside. Some welders and mechanics were said to be working on the broken-down truck when the incident occurred. The dead and injured were reportedly rushed to the Ughelli Central Hospital while men of the FRSC were on hand to help control traffic and evacuate the corpses and the debris. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. Two suspected Yahoo boys die after vehicle rams into stationary truck in Delta  | Two suspected Yahoo boys die after vehicle rams into stationary truck in Delta MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details