LEADING ride-hailing platform, Bolt, and pan-african autotech platform, Fixit45 has announced partnership to enable ride-hailing drivers access autocare, vehicle repair and maintenance services in a bid to reduce mobility disruption and drive income optimization. This is in light of the pivotal role played by the mobility industry in the general, and ride-hailing segment in accelerating economic growth as well as driving shared prosperity, coupled with the need to sustain these mobility efforts, auto tech platform. This partnership is premised on Bolt’s dedication to redefining urban mobility by helping people move seamlessly and empowering partners to improve their earnings and Fixit45’s avowed commitment to building a seamless autocare & auto-repair, maintenance services, fleet management and so much more. This subscription-based service plan for drivers on the Bolt platform guarantees unfettered access to quality auto services that include autocare, vehicle repair and maintenance from Fixit45’s service network across the Country. Other benefits include access to repair financing, discounts on spare parts, unlimited diagnosis, periodic car wash and tire services. CEO and Co-Founder, Fixit45, Justus Obaoye noted that given the enabling power of mobility as a critical success factor in stimulating advancement and development for both urban and rural economies, it is imperative that concerted efforts are made towards mitigating disruptions in that space. “As a platform that enhances mobility experiences, Fixit45 has collaboration in its DNA. As such, we are excited to partner with a market leader in the ride-hailing space in oiling the wheels of progress. This service plan ensures that drivers’ inactivity often occasioned by vehicle operational downtime is minimized while increased earnings, improved vehicle reliability, and quick service turnaround time are some of the perks that come with this partnership. This partnership with Bolt is poised to keep the lights of the Nigerian economy on,” Obaoye said. Speaking on the partnership, Femi Akin-Laguda, Country Manager at Bolt, said,  “At Bolt, our promise of improving the experience of our drivers has been central to our continued success in Nigeria. Our commitment is reflected in our constant effort to build new avenues that help make our drivers and fleet partners more profitable. This partnership will improve the access of our partners to cost-effective autocare, repair financing and so much more.” He concluded by saying “We do not select our partners or partnerships frivolously; Working with Fixit45 on this project will help our drivers keep their cars in great conditions and save them a lot of time and money in maintaining their vehicles leading to better experiences for all our customers, be they drivers or passengers.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.