The First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, on Thursday, called for stakeholders’ increased awareness on cancer. She said there was a need to ensure that the rate of mortality associated with cancer, especially cervical cancer, is reduced. Mrs Buhari spoke at the flag-off of the Arm Our Youths Anti-Cancer Campaign organised by the Onyebuchi Chris Ifediora (OCI) foundation in Abuja. She expressed readiness to partner with more organisations such as the Nigerian Cancer Society and OCI foundation to overcome the negative health outcomes associated with cancer. “It is important to ensure that we do everything possible to reduce the rate of mortality associated with cancer, especially cervical cancer,” says Mrs Buhari who was represented at the event by Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “My future assured initiative has been at the forefront of this campaign over the years, creating awareness, screening and making referrals across the country. On this note, I wish to declare my support in the fight against all forms of cancer. ” I wish to also use this medium to call on cancer stakeholders to exact more effort in awareness creation amongst our citizens.” Earlier, the Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, in a partnership between the OCI Foundation and the NYSC (corps members) for awareness on Cancer might, among other things, reduce medical tourism and conserve the hard-earned foreign currency of Nigerians. Thus, creating awareness to help Nigerians prevent or better manage the ailment. “The NYSC is far more determined than you can imagine to carry out the awareness to all the nooks and crannies of Nigeria,” he said. In his address, OCI Founder, Associate Professor Chris Ifediora said that the Arm Our Youths (ArOY) health campaign offers an innovative approach to stemming the scourge of breast and cervical cancers among Nigerians. He explained that the campaign, a health promotion initiative of the foundation, primarily seeks to introduce anti-breast and anti- cervical cancer programs into the NYSC’s orientation activities across Nigeria. Ifediora noted that the programme with the NYSC is expected to commence with the Batch A 2022 Corps members. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari Aisha Buhari seeks increased awareness on cervical cancer Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Aisha Buhari seeks increased awareness on cervical cancer MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details