Delectable screen diva and recently crowned Sarauniya (Queen Mother) of Uke Kingdom, Nassarawa State, Tayo Sobola, better known as Sotayo, has added another feat to her achievement as she successfully completed her leadership learning course on speaking with power and influence at the prestigious GOTNI Leadership Centre, Abuja. Speaking on the new achievement, Sotayo disclosed that she isn’t done learning as there are many other training she would be embarking on to further broaden the scope of her learning. She said: “With so many responsibilities and tasks ahead of me as the Queen Mother of Uke Kingdom, I will be engaging in lots of speaking to mammoth crowds; so I thought it wise to be grounded in the aspect of public speaking and decided to enrol with GOTNI to be more certified in speaking with power and influence’. Time dedicated to achieve this is worth it and I am glad I invested well. GOTNI is a brainchild of Dr Linus Okorie and is Nigeria’s foremost leadership development hub that offers comprehensive leadership education designed to meet the challenges of the 21st-century leadership environment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Actress, Sotayo, completes leadership training course Actress, Sotayo, completes leadership training course MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details