The Hisbah Command of Bauchi State Sharia Commission has expressed concern over increasing number of commercial sex workers and other women living independently in the state in recent time. The Hisbah Command therefore declared that it is almost completing the plans to take such women back to their various families or in the alternative, get them married to willing men. Commander of the Hisbah Command, Barr Aminu Balarabe made the declaration Monday evening while addressing the women saying that the State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir is worried about the trend and has directed the Commission to do something immediately to stop the trend. Consequently, the Hisbah Commander said that the women who have been profiled will be trained on various skills and trades in order to make them change businesses, be self-reliant and become employers of labour. He added that the Governor condemns the engagement of women in such dirty and dehumanising acts which has increased decadence in the society unhindered as well as increase insecurity situation. The Hisbah Commander added that, “It was because of the development that the Governor has directed the Commission to profile you, to know where each person came from, know your individual problems and which areas each person needs assistance from the government”. He added that, “As you requested, the Governor has sent us here to enable us assist you so that you will be able to have a reliable source of income and livelihood which you will choose yourselves”. “The Commission will give you start up financing support to start with after which each of you will be sent back to your respective families to continue to live normal lives. Choose men you wish to marry”. The move according to the Commission, is aimed at sanitising the state particularly the state capital of commercial sex workers and other women who are living independently but engaged in easy virtue lives. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects