As the Glo Battle of the Year Nigeria enters its fourth episode which airs this Saturday, there will be a dramatic switch from BBoys to BGirls as the female contestants will take turns in the qualifying rounds. However, with the switch notwithstanding, the organisers have revealed that viewers will be in for the same frenzied excitement they have come to expect on the Glo sponsored reality tv show; mesmerizing dances moves, dance floor drama and the joys and pains of victory and loss respectively. The focus in the latest episode will be on break dancing girls, also known as BGirls as they bring their best to the dance floor. From Abuja to Lagos, the ladies make clear that when it comes to break dancing, men do not have exclusive preserve. Show host, Do2Tun shared the same sentiments in his introduction, “If you ever doubted the talent of the BGirls, after this episode you will be a believer.” GloTv, Globacom’s streaming app will also screen the edition on Saturday and subscribers will be in for a spectacle watching BGirl Angel battle BGirl Cindy in the Lagos qualifiers. BGirl Vibe was full of appreciation to Glo for providing her with a platform to launch her career. “Whether I win or not, taking part in Glo Battle of the Year is already a big step,” she said. Aside from the BGirls, viewers will be treated to head-turning popping moves by poppers from the six venues as they battle to make their way to Lagos. As with all competitions, there will be winners and losers but the judges’ decisions are not final. The viewers have the power to alter those decisions by voting on www.globotynigeria.com for their favourite contestants who didn’t make it past the regional qualifications. Also, for viewers who can dance, Glo is also spreading the cheer. They have encouraged viewers to post their dance video on social media – twitter, instagram, tiktok and facebook- add the hashtag #GloBattleOfTheYear and tag a glo social media handle to win N200,000 weekly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Female dancers fight  Female dancers fight Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Female dancers fight  Female dancers fight ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity