The organised labour in Kogi State has applauded Governor Yahaya Bello for approving the immediate implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage in Kogi State The state chairman of NLC, Comrade Onuh Edoka gave the commendations while speaking at the State Executive Committee meeting in Lokoja on Wednesday. He said, “this singular action of the State government has put smiles on the faces of the leadership of the organised labour, the workforce and the entire citizens of the state who will benefit from the ripple effects of improved pay package of workers.” He also announced the suspension of the proposed strike action earlier called over the non-implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage by the state government. Recall that the organized labour in the state, last Saturday, issued a fresh seven-day ultimatum to the Kogi State Government urging them to implement the N30,000 new minimum wage or it will embark on an indefinite strike. He appreciated Governor Bello for following the part of the honour, adding that, the government has lifted the state from the list of states that are yet to implement the new minimum wage. Edoka explained that the implementation of the new minimum wage will add value to the lives of Kogi workers. According to him, the implementation of the new national minimum wage of N30,000 will be implemented fully for grade levels 01 to 06, while the percentage of the consequential adjustment for grade levels 07 to 17 will be partial implementation pending the time the economy of the state improves. “On the issues of cash backing for all promotion, payment of leave bonuses and annual increments, it was also agreed that the government will compute the financial implications in order to work out modalities for implementation. “The agreed state salary structure for the implementation of the new national minimum wage of N30,000 and its consequential adjustment covers both State and Local Government workers. For the purpose of resolving the issues of payment of salary, it was further agreed that the ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, and the Trade Unions at the Local level must initiate further discussions to ensure that the issues are amicably and genuinely resolved,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate