Oladipo O’Fresh, Nigeria’s foremost Smartphone Filmmaker alongside other professionals will be teaching a set of 50 teenagers the basics of making a film or video on a smartphone. These students will benefit from movie experience and track record which he and others have built over the years while using smartphones to make films, documentaries, adverts and other videos which are all available on his YouTube channel @madebyofresh. Topics of great interest have been lined up and professionals from different movie/film departments will be on ground to administer lessons in an easy fashion. Recently, Oladipo O’Fresh celebrated his 40th birthday in Ibadan, and prior to the day, a fundraising was launched to finance the production of 11 movies. According to O’Fresh, his experience with the fundraising taught him a few life lessons, including things about the upcoming training! O’Fresh said, “Participants do not need any experience in filmmaking or video production to participate in this workshop. “This is because the course is designed for complete beginners who want to produce superb videos and/or inspiring films by using their mobile phone or tablet device. “To this end, participants will have the opportunity to learn how to optimize the quality of any mobile phone. “In addition, participants will learn to optimize the inbuilt settings of their phones so as to comply with modern techniques of smartphone movie production. “They will also learn basics shot composition principles and be equally exposed to accessories and gears involved in professional smartphone film making.” He added that the workshop was made free so that the teenagers can afford to attend both physically and virtually. The free training comes on the heels of Divinity Films in collaboration with some other corporate organisations. Participation at the workshop is free however all prospective participants must pre register before the event.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity