As the Bigi-sponsored Nigerian Idol Season 7 Live Show draws near, contestants for the auditions have come to realise that exceptional talent is the only way to get the golden tickets for the music reality show billed for March 20. It has been another exciting season of drama and rousing musical contest for music lovers and upcoming artists as the search for the next Nigerian Idol begins. Itohan, a 17-year-old student, was one of the stars of the day. The teenager thrilled the judges with her beautiful rendition of Andra Day’s ‘Rise Up’. Her performance was accompanied by the piano and got a golden ticket for her performance. Matthew Idu, a 23-year-old student also wowed the judges with his rendition of Timi’s Dakolo’s ‘Iyawo Mi’. Idu’s rendition was particularly emotional as he revealed to the judges that he had vocal training to learn to speak again after a near-fatal accident. Others who got golden tickets include Abigail, Gerald, Faith, Enato, Azuka, Jitey, and Chris. There was also a handful of less melodious renditions for the night. There was Obinna, who got a ‘No’ from the judges. For Jennifer, Nicholas, Emmanuel, Clinton, Nzebuike, Christopher, Olamide, and Robert, their hopes of becoming the next Nigerian Idol crashed as they did not get golden tickets. As the live show kick-starts in March, the contestants with the golden ticket will be showcasing their musical prowess to outwit one another to get the winning prize of N100Million worth of prizes, which include a recording deal from a label, a brand-new SUV, cash prizes, and other exciting gifts. According to Rite Foods’ Brand Manager, Boluwatife Adedugbe, the Bigi CSD brand is highly committed to talent promotion and growth of the entertainment industry by discovering and rewarding budding artists in the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity