Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has reiterated that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will regain its pride of place in Nigeria and Zamfara State in the forthcoming political dispensation. Tambuwal stated this on Monday in Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, where he went to consult the party’s stakeholders on his options to prosecute or drop his ambition to run for the position of president in the country in 2023. The Gusau visit is the second leg of the governor’s presidential bid discourse. Last week on Tuesday, he visited Jigawa State, according to a statement by Muhammad Bello, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the governor .According to Tambuwal, the roll back of the fortunes of the PDP in leading Nigeria and Zamfara State will soon be over. He observed that the reasons he left PDP in 2018 are still subsisting under the All Progressives Congress (APC), adding that “therefore, the leadership of the APC in the country must be challenged in order to make things work right.” Enumerating the ills foisted on Nigerians and the people of Zamfara, which he said are insecurity, economic downturns, debilitating healthcare system and the “collapse of virtually everything,” the governor pledged that “if we succeed in our bid the country will witness a reversal of the current bad fortunes.” He also expressed sympathies to people of Zamfara State on the spate of insecurity and urged them to collectively convoke a security summit to brainstorm on the problem with a view to providing good leadership. On the recent moves by the Zamfara State House of Assembly to impeach the Deputy Governor of the state, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, Tambuwal said this is sub judicial. “The matter is in the court and any law-abiding person must allow the law to take its due course,” he said. In his remarks at the occasion, former Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa, said the purpose of their visit is to present Tambuwal to the state PDP rank and file for consultation with them on the pursuit of his ambition to run for president next year. “He is not a stranger to you. He’s our brother. Sokoto and Zamfara states are the same entity. He (Tambuwal) sought the same position in 2019. Then seven of us from the North contested and he emerged second. “Young and energetic then and now, I believe he still has the capacity to do it very well more than us. He is ready. I have no doubt that he will represent us very well if he gets the chance,” Bafarawa said. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details