The leadership of the House of Representatives on Friday unveiled plans to consult with relevant stakeholders including Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Organised labour on the request made by President Muhammadu Buhari to amend Section 84 of the Electoral Act, 2022 signed into law on Friday. Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu who convenes the House position in a chat with Tribune Online, however, dismissed insinuation that the provisions of the Electoral Act were geared towards disenfranchising political officeholders. Hon. Kalu said: “We should first thank Mr President for signing this bill and this is not just talking the talk, it is walking the talk of the intention to leave a legacy the contribution of the national assembly leadership, as well as its membership, have also made this possible, showing that efficiency of parliament is not express only in rancour and acrimony. “That, rancour and acrimony are not tools for legislative efficiency but collaboration were necessary between the other Arms of government pursuing similar objectives of government from all arms of government seem to work better and this relationship has proven that and what happened today has proven. “And not only this, we have achieved the budget calendar, we’ve achieved the Police Act, and beyond that Deep Offshore Act, Climate Change Act, Petroleum Industry Act, now the Electoral Act, and the Constitution Amendment bill is on the way. All these have happened within three years of being in government. And these are several tasks that were not fulfilled by past Assemblies but with this kind of maturity exhibited by the leadership and membership of the 9th Assembly, we have great results to showcase for this kind of partnership. “I want to say, no law is cast on a stone just like the PIB when it became PIA we met to review one or two sections. Amendment of the Act of Parliament is one of the functions of the Parliament and also one of the processes of law-making. So if there is any need for us to amend 84(10) but I’m surprised they are calling 84(12); but in our books, we can see 84(10), if there is any need to amend it, we would do necessary consultations with our Constituents, the stakeholders in the Civil Society Organisations, and review. “But let it be known that the purposive interpretation of that particular provision must be done with the understanding of what the intention of the Legislators was at the time of drafting that. It is not to be offensive to Section 40 of the constitution that has to do with the right to belong to people’s assembly or Section 42 of the constitution which has to do with non-discrimination. “But it has to do with quelling the frivolous achievements of officers in government by those who want to represent their own ambition during the convention. “Where individuals appointed into the individual capacity to be unable to make the list of delegates and after the convention, their offices cease to stop existing. “That is our view as Legislators does not represent one of the core values for which we went for this electoral reform which is competitiveness, a level playing ground for everybody’s interest in democracy. “It doesn’t go well with transparency, it doesn’t go well with accountability and it will not yield critical results at the end which is our concern. “Therefore, it was to hammer an effort to do in-house cleaning for the political parties, it doesn’t have anything to do with primaries because the constitution has already provided for the designation of people who want to vote and be voted for. So we would not in the course of drafting the Electoral law disenfranchise any member of government who needs to vote or be voted for as long as it is done in line with the provisions of the constitution. “As for the concern of Mr President, which I know he would communicate not verbally but in his usual manner it will now become a document before the House and will become one of the grounds to look at the possibility of review,” Hon. Kalu assured. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…New Electoral Act  New Electoral Act Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…New Electoral Act  New Electoral Act ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity