President of the Gospel Musicians Association of Nigeria (GOMAN), Evangelist Funmi Aragbaye, has laid her mother, Mama Comfort Olasoji Fawehinmi (Nee Ogundoju), to rest. The veteran gospel musician, who announced the passing Mama Fawehinmi, said she died on January 22 aged 95 earlier in the week, and given a final befitting burial, last Friday, at Saint Matthew Catholic Church, Oke-Parde, Ondo city, Ondo State. Aragbaye noted that her mother was healthy and full of life apart from arthritis that comes with aging. She also described Mama Fawehinmi as a prayer warrior and a very concerned mother, who watched out for the safety and good of her children, constantly checking on and wanting to know their whereabouts. “My mother is a very hygienic woman. This did not go unnoticed by those around her, ” Aragbaye said. Speaking about her last moment, Aragbaye said, “Mama died peacefully. She had enjoyed a sumptuous meal, Semo with lots of meat before going to bed that night. She slept peacefully with both hands rested on her chest and glowing as she has always been. “Though she called me a day before and prayed for me. She also spoke with some of my siblings/families in the village to clean her house and fix the faulty door leading to her room as she was ready to come home. “She spent about 35 years with me. I love her so much because she was a good role model. She was my great adviser and also compassionate. The gospel music industry will also miss her because she is so loved by many gospel musicians, notable clerics, and personalities who loved to be around her when they visit us.” “She means a lot to my music career. She is always interested in my progress and safety wherever I go to minister. She monitors and always prays for me, especially when I go for ministrations. I cannot quantify her love for me. I pray God to grant her eternal rest,” she added. According to Aragbaye, Mama Fawehinmi is survived by eight children and 46 grand and great-grandchildren. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details