CADBURY Nigeria Plc, producers of Bournvita cocoa beverage drink, has unveiled: Bethel Nursery and Primary School, from Osun State;  Excellence Nursery and Primary, Ondo State; and Infinity International School,  from Ogun State; as the top three winners of this year’s edition of the  Bournvita Bourn Factor School Talent Competition. Speaking at the award presentation ceremony, held in Lagos, recently, the  Managing Director, Cadbury West Africa, Mrs. Oyeyimika Adeboye, explained that initiative was created to enable children from different schools  showcase their talents, compete and win prizes for their schools, while also using the opportunity of the event  raise money towards a social cause of their choice. She expressed the company’s delight at the acceptance of the competition among the nation’s schools, as evident in the increasing number of participants every year, since its debut in 2019. “We launched the first edition in 2019, with 183 schools entering the competition. Last year, 319 schools participated in the competition, resulting in the collection of over 4 million jars and product wrappers; with 54 of the participating schools exceeding their targets. This shows how much these schools believe in us and the Bourn Factor Competition. Most importantly, it reminds us of how much more we need to do to impact lives,” she stated. Mrs. Adeboye  added that Cadbury Bournvita had worked with winners of the Bourn Factor Talent Hunt Competition in the past to renovate their schools, set up ICT facilities, build playing grounds and provide boreholes. Reiterating the importance of the winners helping children from less-privileged homes, Category Lead, Cocoa Beverages, Cadbury West Africa, Tolulope Olaoye stated that one of the high points of the competition is  to reach out to the less privileged in the society, by ensuring the winning schools nominate an orphanage home, where the company’s products will be donated. While the grand-prize of N3m was presented to Bethel Nursery and Primary School; the duo of  Excellence Nursery and Primary School and Infinity International School,  were given N2m and N1m, as first and second runners-up,  respectively. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.