A man of Monze’s Chibuyu Compound, Zambia,has testified in court that he deserted his wife and his eight month old baby because she is violent and in the habit of pulling his manhood when they fight. According to Zambian Observer, Joyce Mwale, 23 of the same compound has sued Edward Ndhlovu for divorce in the Monze Urban Local Court , accusing him of womanising. Joyce accused Edward of showing off his girlfriends at the saloon that she ran with him. She added that Edward deserted her and their eight-month-old baby to live with his friends. According to her, he only visited their matrimonial home to sell the property they jointly bought. Edward, however, argued that his wife’s habit of acting on rumours was the source of their conflict, which always led to them fighting. He complained that she was so violent that she pulled him by his manhood any time they fought and had at some occasions threatened to poison him or stab him with a knife. Senior local magistrate, Hellen Moonga, adjourned the case till March 15. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity