It is finally Theatre week, and the organisers have announced a new guest judge. In the last Sunday episode, 30 contestants snagged the coveted Golden tickets to clinch their spots at the Theatre week. Being the last day of auditions, a majority of the contestants came on high notes and impressed the trio of judges. 27-year-old Kenneth, a contortionist and flexibility coach was one of the memorable ones. His beautiful rendition of Beyonce’s Halo and shiny shoes – according to D’banj – got him two nods from Toolz and the Kokomaster himself. Other contestants like Joy, Racheal, Victory, Chizoba, and 25 more sang beautifully to secure their spots in the next round. Sadly, some not-so-lucky contestants like 26-year-old Tachey, Omotoyosi, Houston and others did not do justice to their auditions and failed to impress the judges. Queen of Afrojazz, Yinka Davies will be appearing as a guest judge on the next episode of Nigerian Idol. Yinka is one of the longest-serving judges in the history of Nigerian Idol. She started her judging duties at the show’s launch in 2010 and stayed on for another four seasons. Apart from her being a good judge, Yinka Davies wears many other hats. She is a singer, dancer, painter, actor who has been a prominent part of the Nigerian entertainment industry for three decades. Yinka started her creative journey in the late 80s and first launched her career as a painter until she stumbled on Elizabeth Hammond who inspired her to become a dancer. Finally, since her first venture into the music world as a backup singer, she has released three albums and featured in numerous stage plays. Nigerian Idol season 7 is proudly sponsored by Bigi Drinks and Binance Africa. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity