Remains of the late former Oyo governor Adebayo Alao-Akala will be interred at his Ogbomoso residence on Friday, February 18. This was contained in a burial programme released by Honourable Dokun Odebunmi, Chairman, Media Arm of the burial central planning committee. The burial programme detailed weeklong events spanning Ibadan and Ogbomoso that is scheduled to start on Monday, February 14. The events commence on February 14 with Lecture and Day of Tributes by the political class to hold at Jogor Centre, Liberty Road, Ibadan. This is to be followed on Tuesday, February 15 with a Lecture and Day of Tributes scheduled for the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso and a praise night at Alao-Akala’s Ibadan residence later in the evening. A lying-in-state is scheduled to hold at the House of Chiefs, State Secretariat, on Wednesday, February 16 after which a motorcade will be led to Ogbomoso while a Cultural Display and Parade will be done in Ogbomoso, on Thursday, February 17. Funeral events will be wrapped up with a thanksgiving service at Baptist Church, Ogbomoso. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.