Kano State Director, Public Prosecution, Aisha Mahmoud, has informed the Magistrate Court trying three suspects in connection with Hanifa’s death that it would terminate the trial following the successful filing of a fresh case before a Kano High Court. It will be recalled that the school proprietor, Abdulmalik Tanko; 37-year-old Hashimu Isyaku and 26-year-old Fatima Musa were arraigned over a four-count charge of culpable homicide, conspiracy, kidnapping and concealing/keeping in confinement of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar. The Chief Magistrate, Muhammad Jibril, consequently ordered the remand of the suspects in a correctional centre and adjourned its sitting on the matter to February 9, 2022. But on Thursday, Mahmoud who also doubles as the prosecution counsel said the state is withdrawing the matter before the magistrate because offences committed are not triable by the court. She said: “We filed the charges because the offences alleged to have been committed by the defendants are not triable by this court.” Mahmoud added that: “The Kano Chief Judge has directed the case to High Court Number 5. We apply for another date to terminate the First Information Report (FIR) before this court.”  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.  MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details