THE governor of Kwara State, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, has affirmed the policy of the state government on the permissibility of hijab for every Muslim girl-child who desires to wear it in all public schools. The governor condemned attempts by those he described as fifth columnists to polarise the state along religious lines, using the issue of hijab in public schools “as a smokescreen to advance their evil intent.” Abdulrazaq pointed out that Kwara State is a plural society whose diversity and peaceful coexistence as the southernmost northern state are its most unique selling points. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Our Stand on Hijab Based on Law, Respect for Pluralism’, signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, on Tuesday. The statement reads in part: “For the avoidance of doubt, the governor maintains the earlier position of the state government on the question of hijaab as follows: “Based on subsisting Court judgments which were built on the Constitution, federal and state laws, principle of pluralism, and sanctity of the right of every person to their identity, especially in public space, the use of hijaab in public schools is a constitutional right that the government shall protect for anyone and everyone willing to use it. “The government’s strategic patience in the handling of delicate matters involving the people it swore to protect is not same as pandering to anyone’s whims. “Consequently, the governor stands firmly by government’s policy on the permissibility of hijaab for every Muslim girl child who desires to wear it in all public schools. “The governor appeals to the people of the state to not allow agents of fake news and disinformation to mislead them and set them against one another. This administration, to be sure, is beholden only to the law, truth and fairness to all at all times.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…We’ll protect right  We’ll protect right Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…We’ll protect right  We’ll protect right ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity