The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State on Monday announced that it will not participate in the coming local government election in the state. State Chairman of the party, Austin Agada, disclosed this during a press conference held at the party secretariat in Makurdi. The State Independent Electoral Commission had tentatively fixed May 7, 2022 for local government election. Agada who addressed newsmen described the process of the local government election as a “selection” which he said would not guarantee fairness to all contestants. The party alleged that the chairman of the commission would be subservient to the state governor. “On the forthcoming Benue State local government elections, we have consulted widely and come to the painful conclusion that our party will not field candidates for the ‘selection’ (election) process owing to the dishonest manner Gov. Samuel and the Benue State Independent Electoral Commission have been conducting their affairs. “We can gauge the end from the beginning that the system would not guarantee an iota of fairness to contestants on APC platform,” he said. Agada said that the last credible election was conducted during the administration of Governor George Akume where other parties won election in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.