As a trained teacher who spent better part of his life as a teacher before venturing into journalism, Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has expressed his readiness to go back to the classroom to teach in order to promote teaching profession. The Governor assured that his PDP led administration has already come up with initiatives aimed at upgrading the educational sector in the state and promote teaching as the best, noble and oldest profession in the world. Bala Mohammed was speaking during an interview with the Channels Television on the Political Paradigm narrating that the successes he has recorded in three years can best be seen than explained as monitored by Our Correspondent. The Governor also said that he did not emerged as the Governor of Bauchi State in 2019 blindfolded, but, came with the plans to address all multidimensional challenges which were thoroughly mastered with his garnered experience in the federal civil service and now politician. Bala Mohammed further said that his administration with the little resources available, has built over 3000 blocks of classrooms, constructed over 300 kilometre of roads in addition to completing many projects abandoned by the previous administration across the state. On healthcare delivery, the Governor said that already, his administration has declared emergency on the sector and has built a functional PHC in each ward across the state in addition to equipping over 400 PHCs, renovation and upgrading numerous General Hospitals. While commending the security agencies in the state, Bala Mohammed said that the security in Bauchi State has improved, saying that his administration has provided Patrol Security vehicles in addition to welfare to support them. Bala Mohammed also said that Bauchi State Government has under his watch established a robust feedback mechanism to address the insecurity in both urban and rural areas. On economy, the Governor said that his administration has opened up the economy for local and foreign investors, adding that over twenty thousand hectares of land had been allocated for rice producers. He assured that his administration will continue to embark on projects and programs that will positively impact on the lives and living conditions of people of the state who elected him and the PDP. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  I’ll be back in the classroom soon as a professional teacher  I’ll be back in the classroom soon as a professional teacher  I’ll be back in the classroom soon as a professional teacher  I’ll be back in the classroom soon as a professional teacher.