The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has pegged the export of non-oil products as the survival line of the Nigerian economy. Speaking at the weekend in Abuja, the Executive Director of NEPC, Dr Ezra Yakusak, called on Nigerians to embrace the export of made in Nigeria products to boost the country’s economy, create jobs and attract Foreign Direct Investments. He reaffirmed that exporting Nigerian products is the key to economic survival as it has become an emergency for Nigerians to embrace the export of non-oil products. “NEPC is working assiduously to create an enabling environment for exporters, the Council is currently working on the enactment of enabling laws to drive export. The Council would also embark on the sensitisation of Nigerians across the country on the importance of export for national development,” Dr Yakusak stated. A Nollywood actor, Mr Francis Duru, commended NEPC for the new initiative, noting that Nigeria’s overreliance on oil has done more harm than good for economic development. Mr Duru noted that the creative industry holds enormous potential for the nation’s economy, noting that the sector could jump-start the economy. Another Nollywood Actor, Ejike Asiegbu, underscored the need for Nigeria to harness its abundant human and material resources to defeat the poverty plaguing the country. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.