The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila, has described the education reform bill which recently passed the second reading at the lower chambers as critical to the development of girl child education in the country. The speaker made this known during the commemoration of the one year anniversary of the Kemi Ann-Melody Areola Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation that focuses on the development and welfare of the Nigerian child. In a statement released on Monday, from KAMAF, and made available to journalists in Abuja, the speaker who was represented by Hon. Adewunmi Otuba Onanuga also pledged support for women development and KAMAF. Onanuga said: “There is a need for better education. The education reform Bill which has reached its 2nd sitting in the House of Representatives is a critical bill that would accelerate our efforts towards improving the educational sector, particularly for the Girl Child. “We however pledge our continuous support to KAMAF and women development. Also speaking at the event, the minister of women affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, commended the founder of KAMAF for her dedication to the development of the younger generation and the amazing work done by the organization in just one year of its operation. Tallen further highlighted the impact such foundations would make if more dedicated hardworking women as the founder working tirelessly to change the narrative and open up spaces for young girls and providing support to these vulnerable children within communities. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.