Usman Umar, popularly known as Sojaboy, is a Sokoto State-born actor and musician. He spoke with journalists in Sokoto on his rise to stardom, his tie to the American movie industry, Hollywood; his Usman Sojaboy Foundation, among other things. OLAKUNLE MARUF brings excerpts from the interview.  Can you take us back to your beginning? I was born and brought up in the Gidan Egwei area of Sokoto, precisely Gidan Maigoro, where I attended primary and secondary schools before proceeding to the Nuhu Bamaili Polytechnic and obtaining a Higher National Diploma in Accounting. I thereafter went to Benin Republic to obtain a Bachelor’s degree. I grew up in an underprivileged family and growing up was very hard. It was as hard as you can think. At a time, I hustled with a motorcycle and if I earned, like, N100 from the hustle, I would give my mum N30 and spend the remaining on my education. I actually took myself for registration in primary school and my first ever school uniform was sewn by someone who noticed my interest in education and how hard things were for me then. The person also got me some books. When I started making money, I didn’t forget my roots; I built my house where I grew up. I did that to preserve the memory of how it was for me growing up. This motivates me to help people with the little I have whenever I come around. When fame arrived through the entertainment industry, it was a big opportunity for me, a Hausa man from the North with the nickname of Aboki. International stars like Wizkid, Burnaboy, Tiwa Savage and Davido, began to invite me to their shows. They did because they realised that I hailed from a place where it is hard to get someone like me. God so kind, I made it so big and became a star in the United States of America and I just thought it is important for me to leave a legacy. How do I do that? I still live around the people that need help and I decided to use my platform before it fades away.  How did you come into music industry? I had been interested in the music industry right from my childhood days when we used to watch Indian films that had lots of songs. Once we finished watching a movie, I would pick a particular song from the movie and sing it from the beginning to the end, even though I didn’t know what it meant. That is how I started picking interest. As a real Aboki man from Sokoto State, I think differently, and as long as I live, I will hustle and get whatever I want. The whole of my community and Sokoto as a whole did not appreciate music back then and that is why I had to leave. But today, I go to places like Kano, Kaduna and Lagos as a global star and I give God the glory. Alhamdulilahi.  You only mentioned your mum when you were talking about your struggling period. What about your dad? My mum is my biggest supporter and that is why I built a house for her before I built one for myself. I even sponsored her to Saudi Arabia for hajj before I built my house. My father died in 2011.  What motivated you to set up the Usman Sojaboy Foundation? What motivated me is the way people come to me whenever I come around. Whenever I see someone in need, I feel compelled to help because I was once in such a situation. So, even with the last kobo on me, I want share. That is part of the reason I set up the foundation, which I am trying to get donors for from America, Europe and other places. Could you imagine that the United Nations Secretary General is my fan? How amazing is that! You will be shocked at the number of international stars that are my fans. I am trying to use this opportunity before it fades away because nothing is permanent in life. I am trying to leave a legacy. I want to make the foundation so enduring that it will be able to take care of people even after my death.  What type of music are you into? When I started, it was basically Hausa music but I have managed to adapt to English music. Most of my songs are in English but I feel like I have reached a stage where anything I do, people love. I am trying to focus on Hausa so that I can promote the language. My next song that I will do soon in Bauchi, it will be in Hausa language from A to Z, God willing.  What was your journey to Hollywood like? My journey to Hollywood was like luck. One day in 2007, as a junior staff of FAAN, I was at the airport in Kano sitting in the office. I was going through my phone and there I saw an article that one could apply for an audition. I checked it and I just encouraged myself to give it a try which I did. I was picked as number 273,000 because it was a global stuff; we had applied from different countries. Out of the 273,000, I was lucky to be among the 12 people that were finally. I was number one, actually. I was the only one whose nomination Chris Brown reacted to. He didn’t miss my show. Steve Harley and Michael Blackson later became my friends. Blackson came to Nigeria because of me and I also went to Ghana because of him. Malaise Hairo, John Legend and many others that I can’t mention here are my friends. If you tune to Channel 135 on DStv every Thursday by 8.00 p.m., you will watch my programme.  What was it like sharing moments with all these big international stars? I am a confident person. If I meet you and look into your eyes, it is that particular thing that joins us together that I will focus on. They found me on the show and they see me as a star. And you won’t find me shouting when I meet a star. I keep my cool and that is how you can be respected as well.  What has stardom brought you? Stardom has brought me prosperity. Before the game, it was difficult for me to see N3 million but today, I have a lot. I told you that I built a house for my mother and I built one for myself as well. I help people and I want to help even more people. By the grace of God, I am doing good.  There is this belief in Nigeria that anyone that comes from Diaspora and sets up a foundation like yours does that because they have a political ambition. Are you nursing a political ambition? Actually, I don’t have any interest in politics and I have my reasons. I am an independent person; I don’t to be commanded by anyone but my mother. So, the way I see politics today, it is not something I can venture into. First and foremost, I am from the North and you will realise that the region is lagging behind in terms of entertainment. It is not a good idea to leave this opportunity and go to another thing. This is the reason I don’t think I can go for politics now. I may consider it in the future, but for now, it is not in my thinking.  How do you intend to benefit your community? You see, that is why I set up this foundation. The foundation is for the people’s welfare. If I could use my own money to take care of many of them, when donors come, they will help them, too.  Going back to your music career, where do you intend to be in the next five years? I will not tell you I will be number one in the world in five years’ time, but I can assure you that Hausa language will be recognised in the music industry worldwide.  How do you want to be described, as a musician or as an actor? Actually, I am a musician and an actor. I am into both and they are almost the same. If you check all the stars, you will see that they want to do both movie and film, which I am doing presently. I use films to promote my show, my music and Hausa culture.  How do you rate the music industry in Nigeria? The music industry in Nigeria is actually thriving. Nigerian music is really popular in America presently. There is hardly any club you go to now where you won’t hear them play Nigerian music. In fact, about 70 per cent of music playing at the clubhouses over there now is Nigerian songs. My only pain is that Hausa music is not there yet and so I am trying to push it to see how I can make that possible.  Stardom does attract bad press or scandal sometimes. What do you do to guard against that? Before I do anything in life, I look at the religious implication. I always focus on positivity, negativity I leave that behind. I don’t even have time for it. I always protect myself but have no time for negativity.  How do you intend to manage the culture of the land which at times doesn’t permit singing or acting? I don’t want to be called on anything pertaining to Islam. There is hardly anything that has to do with entertainment that is permitted in Islam. But there is a proverb that says that when the music changes, you change your dance steps. Let me tell you something: one of the reasons for insurgency in Northern Nigeria is because of vibe. When EndSARS started in Lagos, you will see Wizkid, Davido, Tiwa Savage, Patoranking, among others, with them. These people were posting and their friends, especially American artistes, were posting for them and those American artistes are the idols of the world. World leaders were supporting them; they enjoyed what they do and that is the reason the whole world attacked the Nigerian government and joined the call for an end to police brutality. If we have such in the North, most of the problems we are having would have been overcome. I don’t get distracted; I focus on what I am doing. If you insult me, I will ignore you and when I get money from what I was doing, I would come and help you.