Chairman, Abuja Tailors Association, Utako market branch have taken their frustration to the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) over months of power outage which they said had crippled their businesses. Chairman of the Utako Branch of the association, David Innocent Wealth told journalistS that the development has frustrated legitimate hardworking members of the society especially as the relevant authority has not provided a solution to the matter. He said the association resolved to take their cry to the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja Branch to share their problems with the world, to help them find lasting solutions to the power problem. His words: “Since COVID-19, AEDC came to the market and cut off the light, that we are tired of owing, we are tired of owing every day. We pay andAEDC officials will go. “Sometimes they will disconnect the light for two to three months. In the end, they will connect it, and you will pay for the months you did not use. “We now said we need pre-paid meters so that we can pay according to what we used, since then we do not know what is going on under-ground between the NEPA and our officials and our executives. “And most of our work we need access to light to operate because we cannot operate without light. we need the light to operate. “our families are suffering every day by day, When you go to the executive in the market, they will give you one story, when you go to AEDC they will give you another story. “So, we’re here for you to help us publicise it, to the whole world what we are suffering in this Utako market. Addressing the protesters, Chairman of Council, Comrade, Emmanuel Ogbeche, advised the association to allow the Union till Wednesday to report the matter and get to the root of the matter with the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC). Ogbeche said this was important to prevent a situation where the peaceful protest would be hijacked by hoodlums to cause any kind of unrest, especially with the streets littered with hawkers of fuel in gallons. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.