Children are precious gifts that comfort the hearts of parents and they deserve to enjoy every stage of their lives: infanthood, childhood and adulthood. But while some people are blessed with children, others are desperately praying to have one. It is not because they are sinful but their time is yet to come. In spite of the importance attached to children, some parents are unconcerned about their children while others have the heart to uplift their lives but do not have the means. The rising incidences of rape and assaults to young girls and boys living in rich-men’s houses in the name of payable works are unarguably increasing; thereby teenagers’ constitutional freedoms, dignities and privileges are denied, abused and violated. Parents in Nigeria are professionals in sheer verbal discussions about potentials and talents of their kids not harnessing them whereas Ghana, Ethiopia, Egypt and other African countries have turned similar potentials of theirs into realities. It was hard in the past to see parents that neglect their parental responsibilities, but in this generation, some parents are habitually lazy to the extent that they succumb to pushing their teenage children to houses of rich individuals to do house chores while their age mates are in schools. At times, such teenagers, especially under-aged girls are sexually abused, then threatened of death if they talk about their suffering. So, the cases die down unheard and the abusers continue harassing other girls that fall in their traps without been punished. Reasonably, poverty is one of the basic factors that necessitate parents to send their teenage children out as house helps. Negligence to parental responsibilities is the second factor forcing teenagers to engage in payable jobs. Also, the ancient tradition of sending male children far away to acquire religious knowledge without provisions like food, money for upkeep, etc make such children do menial jobs The level of poverty needs to be reduced by opening more avenues of employment or businesses so that jobless parents would have means of income. Relatives that embraced children of their deceased family members should provide them with basic necessities of life and treat them like theirs. When parents send their children to far places for religious knowledge, they should continue sending money to them so that they won’t become beggars or be used for labour. Mukhtar Garba Kobi, 08185113672. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…On ruining lives  On ruining lives Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…On ruining lives  On ruining lives MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details