As Bauchi state Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir continues his country wide consultations on his presidential ambition come 2023, he visited two elder statesmen, former Nigerian Ambassador to Switzerland, Alhaji Yahaya Kwande and former Minister of Steel in the Second Republic, Wantaregh Paul Unongo over the weekend who separately told the governor that it was high time for him to run for the presidency. On his own, Yahaya Kwande who received the Bauchi State Governor at his residence in Jos, Plateau State observed that, Governor Bala Mohammed’s vision and mission for Nigeria if given the mandate by Nigerians, will put the country on a path of prosperity, growth and rapid development for a better future. He also said that he was proud of the leadership skills of the governor, especially the way he is looking to handle the country with a robust framework and blueprint. Yahaya Kwande said that, “I am highly delighted to receive you in my house Your Excellency, each time I heard you talking, I feel very happy and now time has come if you have not come out you might have done wrong for this country”. He further said that, “and the way you are talking, particularly making references to some of your senior colleagues is so nice because you are not arrogant in presentation and that is how you will be brought up” . According to him, “When I heard you were coming, I said this is the time that I should be bold enough to say I am back to PDP. My mind 100 percent, yesterday, today, and tomorrow is with PDP.” On his own, the former Minister of Steel in the Second Republic, Wantaregh Paul Unongo who also received the Bauchi governor at his residence in Jos, expressed confidence in his ability to stabilize and unite the country if given the opportunity to become the next President of Nigeria. The elder statesman while backing up the presidential aspiration of his visitor, urged him if elected to consolidate on ensuring mutual understanding among the various tribes of the country especially Fulani and Tiv for unity and progress of the nation. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Paul Unongo said that, “I am overwhelmed with this visit by my son who is now the Governor of Bauchi State, this is my son whom I’m always pleased with and whatever ambition he has, I will back him.” The elder statesman also said that “I am thinking about you on many things especially when we are looking for a young man to be our presidential candidate from the North and I will tell the people on why they should vote for Bala Mohammed as president of Nigeria.” For Governor Bala Mohammed, his visit to Ambassador Yahaya Kwande was to seek his support and guidance on his 2023 political ambition. The Bauchi governor insisted that, for the younger generation to excel in politics, there is the need for them to always consult people like Kwande who have the knowledge and experience especially in leadership. Bala Mohammed said that, “We have always seen you as a role model who excelled in politics, this is the time we need people like you in the country when there is so much division, so much rancor, and of course now with politics coming on board and some of us that are looking for something we need you for advice, we need you to put us on the good track, because of your experiences”. According to him, “I have just come to pay you a visit as a mark of honour and to request you with all humility that pleases even though you are  age, we feel we have a lot to gain from you because we are in need of a good direction.” Bala Mohammed said his visit to the former Minister was to sympathize with him over the death of his mother, late  Madam Comfort Unongo. He said that “We must appreciate the serious struggle you made to bring development to Nigeria and to your people and we said togetherness is always attested by personal visit” as contained in a statement by Muktar Gidado, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Bauchi Governor.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity