Honourable Rotimi Lateef Abiru is a member of Lagos State House of Assembly representing Somolu II Constituency. The lawmaker, who is the immediate past Chief Whip of the House, in this interview by BOLA BADMUS, speaks on state police, the Value Added Tax (VAT), among others.  You are a strong supporter of establishment of State Police, why are you in support? This is one thing that we have been clamouring for before insurgents started. We have been to other countries and we know how security is considered very important over there. And beyond State Police, there is also community policing. The people can police their state better because they understand as well as have better knowledge to police their community than anyone the Nigeria Police may deploy to maintain law and order within the community. Some of these officers do not understand the community where they are posted. Although they will claim to be professionals unlike when you have people that live within. The community police can easily identify visitors and nip in the bud any plan that could result in a crisis. Nothing can be better than the Federal Government granting the state the full autonomy to set them up. Even in some states, they have had reasons to set up internal mechanisms to boost security within their state. In some parts of the country, we have Ebube Agu in the East, the South-West has Amotekun while Lagos has the neighbourhood watchers and others. And it has indeed helped to protect lives and property.  There are arguments that some states may not be able to fund the outfit hence the reason some people claim state police is not a wise decision? Irrespective of teething problems in individual states, I believe that the governors will not be there forever. They will serve their tenure and move on. We cannot start complaining now when we have not tried it. Right now, some states are empowering vigilante groups and paramilitary groups. And since then, these local security groups have complemented the role of the federal security agencies. I am not sure that the Nigeria Police have enough men to police the country. Yes, I agree that the concerns are genuine but again I do not think that should be sufficient enough to stop the establishment of state police. More states have realised that it is the best solution to improve security within their states and that will also give the governors the sense of responsibility to know that the security of the states lies with them. This will change the current narrative because now when they give out instructions to the police and the IGP gives counter instruction, the law enforcement officer will do the IGP. But you need to understand that Lagos State government has often been supporting the police and other law enforcement agencies across the state through the State’s Security Trust Fund, with arms and ammunition as well as boosting their morale often. In spite of that, none of the law enforcement agencies or any individual can say that the government has used the agencies against them. I think it is better for all of us to think through it and understand that it is a necessity that must be done to protect lives and property across the country. Thank God there is peace in Lagos State and this is because we have not rested on our achievements over the years. And during our engagement with the former Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, he indeed disclosed that the state recorded about four cases of kidnapping, and the way they dealt with the supposed perpetrators had sent warning signals to others that they will not find it easy here. We understand that no one can compel the other person not to commit a crime; it is left for the law enforcement officers to be active and nip such in the bud immediately. I am sure that anyone living in Lagos can attest to the improvement in security, and I believe that it should be sustained.  What about funding of state police? Don’t you think state police would affect the finances of Lagos State, considering projects? I do not believe that there is much more to spend on the issue of policing Lagos State even if we take responsibility. I have an idea of how much the state spends on law enforcement. We give glory to God for the establishment of the LSSTF. The funds provided by the LSSTF were not totally from the government. They are funds from both the government and the private sector because they all know that business can only thrive in a peaceful and secure environment. They support the LSSTF and they all see what the funds is being used for. Security cannot be left for the government alone, it is what everyone needs to get involved in. We need to understand that the LSSTF does not draw budget from the government’s purse. Although the state has a way through which  it supports it but is not solely run on government’s funds. The LSSTF annual account rendering has earned the trust of everyone that contributes into it. With the funding of the law enforcement agencies, hardly will there be bank robbery within the state and its security network would not catch up with them. And for the criminals too, they will prefer to operate in areas where they can have an easy ride. Right now, the waterways are secured, so I can reason that these criminals are thinking about moving outside Lagos for their nefarious activities.  Can we have an update on VAT collection in the state? I think there is an inter-ministerial committee that is looking into that collection. It was that the state just woke up and demanded that it wants to start collecting VAT. It was based on the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction to the effect that states have the power to do that. Of course, the state is a sub-national of the Nigerian nation and it behold on us to act within the ambit of the law, which is the 1999 Constitution. the VAT was not mentioned in the constitution. There are more engagements ongoing to address the issues that surround that. VAT is like consumption tax; it is charged on goods and does not affect ordinary man on the street. It is meant for companies that operate within the confines of a particular state and we should not forget that the effect of the company’s activities is being borne by the state where it is sited, so why should the FG be the one to collect that? It is not only on the issue of VAT, the issue of Stamp Duty is also involved. Again, talks are ongoing with the FG to ensure that the state gets the maximum support in that regard.  You will agree with me that the bulk of the revenue comes from Lagos State and it is not too much for the FG to consider us as a special entity because this is about resource- control. Lagos is a state surrounded by water and this is like a resource to us. So activities, therefore, increase human activities and that human activities have its own effect both on the lives and the environment of Lagos, particularly the pollution from trucks and others. This is not unquantifiable. Of course, it creates a challenge for the government because the government will not allow its residents to inhale all the emission from the activities. The state on its own, through LASEPA is working effectively to ensure that the air quality is good and ensure some great level of compliance among those generating these activities in the state. It is for the Federal Government to support the state that has the capacity to collect the revenue because the state will be able to collect more than what the FG is generating for the country. We are here, it is our base, we have all the resources to do that. But we cannot be seen as struggling with the FG because governance is about the people. And I pray that at the end of the day it will be resolved in favour of the state, so that the state can have more money to develop its infrastructures and care for the peoples’ need without depending on the apex government for assistance.  How did the Lagos House of Assembly address the agitations that trailed the conversion of AOCOED, MOCPED, and LASPOTECH to universities? We have worked on the bill before now but there were a few areas of contention that needed to be looked into. And that includes the name and locations for the main campuses because some people from other parts of the state are agitating that they wanted the campuses in their area. These were some of the issues that were addressed. While addressing the issues, there were two names in contention- University of Education, Lagos or Lagos State University of Education (LASUED). After several arguments, we finally resolved that in line with our identity, as in the case of LASU, and we felt that it is better to follow that tradition. And that was why we agreed to use LASUED. Also, we agreed that the location should be where there are available facilities that enhance quick take-off of the institution. Also, it was agreed that it should be multi-campuses varsity with MOCPED serving as one of the campuses. Again, it is to take care of the dichotomy between BSC and HND that was recently abolished. For me, I think it is in the best interest of the people of Lagos. Although, setting up varsity comes with its early challenges. And to reduce challenges was why we opted for an institution that already has existing infrastructure, AOCOED. It will help to ease the start. It will also encourage lecturers to up their game by obtaining higher certificates and others. All we have done is for the development of education in the state. I believe that this New Year will offer good tidings for the people of Lagos State.  What is the government to have hostels for the new varsities and LASU? I believe that having hostel facility is not one of the major criteria for NUC to approve a varsity in the country to run courses. I believe it is the quality of lecturers and others facilities. The funding of a varsity cannot be left for the government alone. For instance, LASU was not initially designed as a residential institution. But what you find now is that sector participation is now on the increase to fill the gap. So it is not all universities that have the entire facility to accommodate all students that are willing to stay on campus. There is nothing wrong for school to operate off campus accommodation. This is an opportunity for the private sector to use as a business venture.  How will you rate the performance of the APC- led government in the state? To God be the glory, we found ourselves in a strategic location in Nigeria, where we are trying to do the best for our people. I wonder how you want me to rate myself and other public officeholders. If I do that, I will rate myself beyond expectation. We have done well and we can still do more for the state. The governor and lawmakers know that we cannot rest on our achievements, we have to do more for the people. While we do more, the Fourth Estate of the Realm, and the civil society should, I mean should checkmate and evaluate the government on its performance.  And what should be the expectations of Lagosians from the APC- led Lagos State government before 2023? The residents of Lagos State should be expecting good governance, better law and order. They should understand that if Lagos is a country, I am sure we will be a country to reckon with globally. And even in spite of its status as a state in Nigeria, Lagos still remains the destination for many that is coming into the country. In all, Lagosians should expect good tidings from the government while the government will be asking for maximum cooperation from the citizens particularly by not contravening the laws, including the Traffic Law; because one thing we experienced during 2021 was outright disregard for Traffic Law and that compounded gridlocks across the state. It is different to make laws and it is another issue with compliance. I agree that the government may not have the full manpower to enforce laws, but when the citizens comply, the society will be better. Also, the citizens should respect the law enforcement officers because within last year, we witnessed cases of harassment of law enforcement officers across the state particularly military officers that were found to have flouted the law. The government is about all of us and the way we all play our roles determines the successes of the state.  Can we know from you the relationship between the Executive and Legislature in the state being a lawmaker? The relationship between the lawmakers and the executive has been very smooth and that is not ordinary. The reason for this is because we all put the interest of Lagos forward whenever issues arise. You all know that two sets of people cannot be working together for the state and they will not have issues that make them cross each other’s path. But when this arises, we often seat on the round table to resolve issues and rather than slogging it out. We all ensure that our jobs are done effectively for the state. We are independent of one another but there is still inter-dependency among us. We sacrifice for Lagosians to get all they desired from the government and that was why we decided to pass the budget before 2022. This is to give the government privilege to commence work immediately and prevent any lacuna that may arise in governance in Lagos. This is logical. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details