The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) earned N203billion from the sale of white products in August 2021. This is the value of a total of 1.532billion litres of white products sold and distributed by the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a downstream subsidiary of the NNPC, in the month under review. This is contained in the NNPC’s 73rd monthly financial and operations report. According to the report, Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS) accounted for 99 per cent of the total sales, while Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), also known as diesel, accounted for the rest. Between August 2020 to August 2021 the total revenue generated from the sales of white products is put at N2.619trillion. Petrol within the period contributed about 99.76 per cent of the total sales with a value of N2.613trillion. Also, 21 pipeline points were according to the report, vandalised representing a 50 per cent decrease from the 42 points recorded in July 2021. According to the report, the Port Harcourt area accounted for 10 per cent, while Mosimi Area accounted for 90 per cent of the vandalised points. “In line with the Company’s commitment to the principles of accountability, transparency and performance excellence, the NNPC Ltd. has continued to sustain effective communication with stakeholders through the publication of the MFOR on its website,” it said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. NNPC earns N203bn from white products sale in August 2021 Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. NNPC earns N203bn from white products sale in August 2021 MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details