The immediate past Vice Chancellor of University of Osun State (UNIOSUN), Osogbo, Osun State, Professor Labo Popoola, said that the institution witnessed tremendous progress under administration by giving priority to improving the academic quality of the institution. Popoola who stated this, during reception organised by his friends to honour him for his remarkable services at the institution declared that he left the varsity better than he met it. According to him, he was able to reposition the University by improving the quality of teaching, facilitating faculty development through programmes, encouraging research, collaborating with other institutions among others. The former VC who left office in November 2021, disclosed that his sojourn at the varsity as vice-chancellor was a tough one but expressed happiness that the UNIOSUN he met in 2016 was not the same UNIOSUN he left in 2021 by all standards. “It is not really a smooth journey running Osun State University as the vice-chancellor. What I met on ground gave me the challenge that there was a lot to do. “With the support and assistance of God Almighty and a good number of officers and officials of the University, including the Chancellor of our great university, Apostle Dr Folorunso Alakija, Pro-Chancellor, Mallam Yusuf Olaolu Alli, SAN, as well as other principal and other strategic officers who were very committed and honest, it wouldn’t have been easy for me to make a substantial impact during my stay. “But I want to tell you that I am happy I left the citadel of learning better that I met it in 2016 when I assumed office as the vice-chancellor,” Prof. Popoola said. Professor Tunde Babawale, a foremost Professor of History and current Provost of Anti-Corruption Academy of Nigeria (ACAN), who was the chairman of the event, described Prof. Popoola as a brilliant Professor who was reputed for his incorruptibility. He noted that Prof. Popoola’s administrative style was marked by transparency, value for money, and accountability. Prof. Babawale recalled that the institution witnessed tremendous progress under Prof. Popoola’s 5-year tenure as the third substantive vice-chancellor of the varsity. The successor of Prof. Popoola in the varsity, Prof. Odunayo Adebooye commended him for the legacies of good governance he left behind, which he said had placed the University on a better platform of readiness and steadiness to lead other universities in the areas of academic stability, financial sustainability, graduate output quality and societal impact. Presenting the celebrant to the gathering, the orator, Dr. Toyese Dahunsi of the Department of English, UNIOSUN said “Prof. Popoola, an astute scholar with sterling attributes and stellar character, a vibrant and prolific Professor who has seen it all in the university system “An academic whose research output is unprecedented in quantity, quality and impact; a multinational research grantee who has attracted multi-million dollar research grant to his university; a great mentor who has supervised 27 doctoral theses, and 15 whose doctoral supervisees and mentees are now professors at home and abroad.” The reception that was graced by academics, traditional rulers, religious leaders, functionaries, captains of industry, according to the lead organiser, Engr. Aderemi Bello, the immediate past Chairman of Inisa Descendant Union and a consultant in oil and gas drilling, was put together by Prof. Popoola’s friends outside the University, who were proud of his successful completion of tenure as the vice-chancellor. The reception was also graced by the Olunisa of Inisa Land, Oba Joseph Oladunjoye Oyedele; the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba AbdulRasheed Ayotunde Olabomi; the Olona of Ada, Oba Dr. Oyetunde Olumuyiwa Ojo, who, in their respective speeches, attested to Prof. Popoola’s unimpeachable character, academic prowess, leadership with impact, and vision, all of which have culminated in the speed and quality of progress witnessed by the University under him. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…I give priority  I give priority Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…I give priority  I give priority ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity