About five persons including policemen were feared killed in coordinated armed robbery attacks on some commercial banks in Uromi, headquarters of Esan North-East Local Government Area of Edo State on Thursday. The suspected armed robbers were also said to have carted away unspecified huge sums of money from the affected banks. A resident of the sprawling community, the home town of the late Chairman of PPD Board of Trustees (BOT), Chief Tony Anenih, said that the attacks on the banks were too coordinated. The source, who pleaded anonymity, described the attacks as “too coordinated in commando style and they armed robbers launched the attacks simultaneously. This is novel in this town.” Other sources in the town listed the banks affected by the activities of the suspected armed robbers to include first generation banks “The sporadic shots by the armed robbers caused panic in the town. The robbers came prepared. People are just running helter-skelter,” another source said. Residents were said to be making contacts with security agencies to come to the rescue of the banks and the residents. Meanwhile, when contacted, the Edo State Police Command Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Kontongs Bello, confirmed the attacks, saying, ” that’s true sir,” but failed to provide further details. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity