The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Delta State, Isaiah Bozimo Esq, has assured staff that the welfare of the ministry of justice will continue to be his priority. The Attorney-General, who was at the Warri Zonal office of the Ministry of Justice, said he was satisfied with the staff attendance ratio and commitment to their duties. Bozimo, who was conducted round the offices by Mrs Zino Aikpoko-Martins, the Zonal Coordinator of the office, charged the staff to be more dedicated and committed to their duties at all times. He pointed out that government would not condone absenteeism and dereliction of duty as the government places a premium on hard work and commitment to duty from its workforce. Earlier, the Zonal coordinator took the Attorney-General around the offices where they bared their minds to him on their pressing needs. The Attorney-General promised them that their request would be addressed as a matter of urgency. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details