PROFESSOR Samuel Oye Bandele has been appointed as the new vice chancellor of Anchor University, Ayobo, Lagos. Professor Bandele graduated from the University of Benin with First Class honours  in Mathematics Education in 1983. He bagged his Master’s and Ph.D degrees from the University of Ibadan and became a Professor in 2001. Before his current appointment, he had been vice chancellor at the University of Science and Technology, Ifaki-Ekiti, University of Education, Ikere-Ekiti and Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti. The new vice chancellor is a member of not less than 11 professional bodies within and outside Nigeria and at different times, he had held various administrative positions such as the head of department, dean, acting director and director. Professor Bandele has served and is still serving in different arms of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry. Until his appointment, he was both the state coordinator of Deeper Life Campus Fellowship for Ekiti State and zonal coordinator for the South West. The new AU vice chancellor hails from Ijesamodu-Ekiti of Ekiti State and is married with children. Meanwhile, the outgoing vice chancellor, Professor J.O. Afolayan, management, staff and students of the institution have congratulated the incoming VC, praying for God’s continuous wisdom, understanding, guidance, stable health and renewed vision as he assumes duty soon. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details