Besides reiterating the company’s confidence in the nation’s business environment, the management of Kimberly-Clark Nigeria has said its newly-commissioned diaper and sanitary pad brands plant in Ikorodu, Lagos, would also enable Nigeria to serve as an export hub for Africa in the near future. The General Manager, Kimberly-Clark Nigeria, Vani Malik, made this assertion at the commissioning of the state-of-the-art $100m plant over the weekend. While reiterating the company’s commitment to investing in the country’s socio-economic development and growth, Malik argued that it had been the company’s long-term objective to strengthen its presence and investments in Nigeria. She expressed the belief that with the commissioning of the new facility, ten years after opening its door for business in the country, the company had demonstrated its commitment to the implementation of the nation’s roadmap for industrialization, to create jobs, substitute imports and boost exports. “This is a symbol of our commitment to our global vision of providing Better Care for a Better World. In Nigeria, we fulfil that vision by supporting babies, women, mothers and young girls,” she added. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Acting Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Kimberly-Clark, Middle East and Africa, Fernando Baticon, attributed the decision of the company to site the facility spanning an impressive 14,800m² area of a total land plot of 86,000m, in Nigeria, to the importance of the Nigerian market to Kimberly-Clark. “Nigeria is one of our top priority markets. This is one of our most substantial investments on the continent, to increase and strengthen our presence here. Our new state-of-the-art mill is a symbol of our commitment to this country and the opportunity for growth that exists,” he added. Baticon further stated that the company, which began its operations in Nigeria in 2012, with the introduction of Huggies diapers in 2015, and Kotex sanitary pads in 2019, had continued to create impact, not only through high quality and affordable products, but also through associated initiatives, geared towards improving the lives of young girls and expectant mothers. Commissioning the facility, Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, lauded the company for the multimillion-dollar investment, describing it as being strategically aligned with the present administration’s drive for domestic production and human capital development.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity