HOW would you react to the approval of your elevation as Olubadan by the Oyo State governor? I must thank the governor of Oyo State for doing what he has done and for acting very promptly. I want to thank the people of Ibadan land for their support. Since the declaration by the governor, I have had more than one million calls and visitors congratulating me. Tell us about the long journey to becoming Olubadan. I became Mogaji of Alliwo family in 1986 – that is quite a number of years. Until last week, I was Otun Olubadan, not Olubadan. But it is not unusual because the Ibadan system is like that. It is a gradual movement from Mogaji to Olubadan. That is why it is not controversial and when it comes, it comes. It has been a long journey but I have every reason to thank God for getting there. There are many who do not get to the seat of Olubadan. The few that got there have no reason to say anything other than thank God and thank Ibadan people. I just began to appreciate the Ibadan system; it is a beautiful system. You just get there when you get there. It is nothing controversial that people have to fight or sue one another over it. I appreciate the Ibadan people and their system. I thank the people that evolved the beautiful system. Tell us about your early life I came back from England in 1965 and I was a research fellow in Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. I left ABU a couple of years later and joined Shell BP in Lagos. I was head of industry relations in Shell BP; I was head of Planning and development in Shell BP; I was head of recruitment and scholarship. I even recruited two of our current ministers (I won’t mention them). There was one who was in charge of petroleum resources. I became Mogaji of Aliiwo even when I was in Shell BP. Aliiwo will be thankful and grateful to God that they did what they did. I didn’t think they should have done it then but I have every reason to be thankful to God that they did what they did. I became Mogaji of Aliiwo in 1986 and became Olubadan now; that is 36 years. In fact, that will be one of the shortest times spent before becoming Olubadan. What is your vision for Ibadan during your reign? I intend to surprise everybody with what will happen with the development of Ibadan. Ibadan is the capital of Africa. We will be a greater capital of Africa in the next few years, God willing. What title are you taking? I will be referred to as His Imperial Majesty, Oba Senator (Dr) Moshood Olalekan Ishola Balogun-Aliiwo. Ali-Okumade II. I am the second Olubadan from Aliiwo family. We had the first one in 1952, which is 70 years ago. Looking at what happens in other kingdoms, what is your disposition towards having a person of younger age become Olubadan in the future? I am still luckier and younger than most people that became Olubadan. But, I will be happy to have a much younger person become Olubadan but I will be in my grave, then. I will be sleeping and rejoicing with God but I will be happy there. If I were 95 years, 100 years, the things I will be able to do as Olubadan of Ibadan land now, I will not be able to do them. It will be good to have a younger person as Olubadan; the much younger, the better. It is not good to have Olubadan who, due to age, is unable to perform his duties as expected. A much younger person will do better than myself as well, although, intellectually, I am well prepared for this office. Also, I will listen to my age mates, my friends to offer me advice. In recent past, your predecessors have used their personal houses as palace of Olubadan, are you also comfortable toeing this line or you will be pushing for the building of a central palace for all Olubadan? I have three palaces now. The Aliiwo palace is the main palace. The Aliiwo palace is two times my age. My Alarere residence is private and comes as secondary palace. And, I look forward to living in the new Ibadan palace; it is a beautiful and big palace. I may be the first to inhabit the new Ibadan central palace.