Stakeholders from four council wards of Yonov, Tomboe, Turan and Nenzev in Logo local government area of Benue State have raised the alarm of the influx of herdsmen into their areas. One of the stakeholders, Joseph Anawah, told newsmen on Tuesday said that several herders with their cows have flooded some communities in the four council wards of the local government. He added that the invasion of the herders had also posed serious threat to neighbouring communities in Buruku and Guma local governments. According to Anawah, the herders crossed River Benue settled at Tse Azaye, Tse Agah, Tse Getim and Tse Iosun all in Tombo council ward, adding that the herders later migrated through Akwana in the neighbouring Wukari LGA of Taraba State and then moved through Kurungu village to Tombo council ward and proceeded straight to Tse June in Turan council ward all in Logo council area. “On 20th February 2022 at about 8:00pm, herdsmen arrived Tse Ikyegh in Yonov council ward in Logo LGA with over one thousand cows and settled beside Logo stream. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “They migrated from Tombo Council ward in Logo and proceeded straight to Yonov community in the interior part of Ugondo geo-political axis after causing alot of destructions on cassava farms and seed yams in Tombo and Turan council wards. “They are so hostile and do not want anybody to come close to them. The locals on sighting the arrival of cows started packing out of their villages for the fear of unknown,” Anawah said. He stated that a Kindred Head of one of the communities, the Mbaifu community, Gbamga Nengem who visited the settlement to know their mission in his community was informed that they had come to settle in the area vowed to resist any attempt to evict them either by the host community or government agencies. Consequently, Anawah called on government and security operatives in the state to help beef up security in Logo council area to avert crisis. However efforts to get the state chapter of Miyeitti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) to react to the report were not successful. The state secretary, Ibrahim Galma, who claimed to be in Abuja asked for time to confirm the report and promised to call back but he is yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. He also refused to answer phone calls our correspondent put across to him. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity