THE national headquarters of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has queried the Lagos State chairman of the union, Musiliu Akinsanya (MC Oluomo), over alleged insubordination and indulging in anti-union activities. The national headquarters, in a query dated February 14, 2022, and signed by the General Secretary of the union, Kabiru Ado Yau, stated that Akinsanya had blatantly refused to carry out all the directives and instructions given to him in recent times by the national headquarters. The query reads, “Our attention has been drawn to the fact that despite the National Secretariat’s directives during a meeting with you and other members of the Lagos State Administrative Council (SAC) in Abuja on February 9, 2022, pertaining to the appointment of Azeez Abiola as chairman, Lagos State NURTW Tricycle Operators, you have refused to comply. “Instead, you have resorted to intimidation, harassment and assault on the newly appointed Tricycle Association Chairman.” The national headquarters also lamented that Oluomo refused to hand over the former NURTW secretariat situated at No 360, Abule Egba on Abeokuta Expressway to the Tricycle Caretaker Committee in a bid to prevent them from using the office. The national leadership of the union further accused Akinsanya of using thugs to forcefully take over branches of his perceived enemies. To avoid the wrath of the union, the national headquarters directed MC Oluomo “…to, within 48 hours, hand over the former state council secretariat at Abule Egba to the newly appointed Lagos state Tricycle Committee, withdraw all those men sent to take over the branches of perceived opponents, submit a written apology to the national secretariat, as failure to comply with the foregoing directives will leave the national secretariat with no option other than to take disciplinary action against you in line with the provisions of the union’s constitution.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.