One Tambaya Usman aged 30yrs ‘m’ of Jaguwa village via Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State has been arrested by the Operatives of the State Police Command for allegedly killing his cousin, one Umar Musa aged 28yrs of same address. A press statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Niger State Police Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, a copy which was made available to the newsmen on Thursday in Minna stated this while adding that the suspect was arrested on 01/02/2022 at about 1100hrs, by Police operatives attached to Kagara Division. The statement added that during interrogation, the suspect allegedly confessed to the crime and claimed that he caught the deceased with his wife, one Hajo Gambo Tambaya aged 22yrs ‘f’ of the same address, having sexual intercourse in his room, and as a result, he inflicted machete cuts on the deceased’s head which led to his death. The suspect was further quoted to have claimed that he had caught the deceased in the same act severally while their parent and relatives had intervened and cautioned the deceased to desist from such act. “He said the deceased later apologised for the act and promised never to engage in such misdeed again, but to his surprise, he caught him again, hence his action,” the release stated. Meanwhile, DSP Abiodun has said that the suspect has been arraigned in court for prosecution. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity