Delta State Police Command has rescued a kidnap victim, killed a robbery suspect, foiled a cult initiation and arrested 13 suspects in the state. The operatives also recovered assorted arms and ammunition during the operations which took place last Thursday and Friday. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, made the disclosure in an electronic statement made available to journalists on Monday. According to him, on February 25, 2022, at 2:00p.m, operatives of ‘B’ Division Warri Patrol team, while acting on a tip-off, engaged a gang of robbers led by one wanted Getay in Warri in a gun duel. Getay, Edafe said, subsequently sustained lethal injuries and died in a hospital while a cut-to-size double barrel gun, one live cartridge and two expended cartridges were recovered from the scene. Edafe further disclosed that on February 24, at about 10:30p.m, operatives of Dragon 18 Patrol team while on routine stop-and-search duty along ECN/Otu-Jeremi Aladja road by Ewhrekekan junction, sighted a Mercedes Benz ML 350 and Lexus 350 parked by the roadside. On close observation of the two vehicles, a kidnapped victim (name withheld) aged 62 years raised an alarm that he had been kidnapped. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The victim was eventually rescued by the patrol team and explained that he was kidnapped at about 6:50p.m at the entrance of his gate in Afisere road, Ughelli. The operatives, Edafe added, recovered one Mercedes Benz ML 350 black colour with Reg. No. EKY 964 DP belonging to the victim, and an AK47 magazine loaded with eight rounds of 7.62 ammunition. Operatives of Issele-Uku Division also foiled a cult initiation ceremony at Ukwu Nzu forest, arresting 13 suspects and recovering a locally-made double-barrel shotgun, 25 live cartridges, a Toyota Corolla with Reg No. GRA 68 SG and a Lexus 350 SUV with Reg No BDG 689 GQ. “To this end, the CP has ordered all Area Commanders, DPOs, Tactical Commanders and the Command Anticult Unit to identify cultists’ hideouts, carry out continuous raids, arrest and ensure that anyone found wanting to be made to face the full wrath of the law,” DSP Edafe quoted CP Ari Muhammed Ali as directing officers of the command. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.