The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced the mass redeployment of its workers across the country. Mr Festus Okoye, Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee disclosed this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Okoye revealed that the action which was taken after a meeting of top management staff was to ensure efficient and optimal performance of the affected personnel. The statement further revealed that 186 staff were affected among them were 46 Heads of Department. The Commission which disclosed that the ‘affected staff are either serving in their States of origin or have served for between 10 and 32 years in the same State,” further maintained that it “considers this development as unhealthy for the sensitive responsibilities they discharge. The statement read in part: “The Commission met today Thursday 24th February 2022 and deliberated on a number of issues, including the deployment of staff across the country to ensure efficient and optimal performance. “The affected staff are either serving in their States of origin or have served for between 10 and 32 years in the same State. The Commission considers this development as unhealthy for the sensitive responsibilities they discharge. In line with the Commission’s existing posting policy, henceforth no Head of Department (HoD) or Electoral Officer (EO) shall serve in his/her state of origin. Furthermore, no staff shall serve for more than two electoral cycles in the same duty post. “Consequently, the Commission has identified 186 staff for immediate redeployment. Among them are 46 HoDs who are either serving in their States of origin or served for more than two electoral cycles in the same State as well as 140 EOs serving in their States of origin or served for more than two electoral cycles in the same State. “The redeployed staff are to complete the handing and taking over not later than Wednesday 9th March 2022. “This will be an ongoing exercise that will extend to other categories of staff in the Commission’s Headquarters, State and Local Government offices nationwide.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity