The Arewa Youths Consultative Forum (AYCF) has pleaded with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to reconsider its policy of elevating its officers who joined the service between 2009 and 2015 and leaving behind those who joined the service between 1992 and 1994. This was even as it said those who spent 30 years in the service is not their fault but rather the government’s that placed an embargo on recruitment. In a statement issued by its National President, Yerima Shettima on Saturday in Kaduna, it said, “it has come to our notice, as a group, that the management of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) is set to pursue a policy of exclusion in the promotion of its personnel, based on illegitimate criteria. “We gathered that the plan in the offing is to exclusively promote personnel who joined the service between the year 2009 and 2015. This is bad enough because there are personnel of the service who have been for the past 30 years. “The action of the service is now predicated on the pedestrian argument that there has been no fresh recruitment into the service between 1992 and 1994, up until 2009 when the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan lifted the embargo. To this end the Arewa Youths noted that the gap created by the embargo is not the fault of the officers who gave all of their mental and physical energy in the service of this nation for over three decades. “We find it totally unacceptable, any policy that will allow promotion of Customs Service personnel through the backdoor. “We expect that the philosophy of respect for procedure, which President Muhammadu Buhari has been known for  should be allowed to prevail in the circumstance. “We are disturbed that the Nigeria Customs Service could even contemplate this selective and therefore unprofessional method of promoting its personnel without recourse to established procedure. “We find it quite disappointing that the NCS would pursue this unacceptable method, apparently without recourse to the office of the Minister of Finance and National Planning or even the advice of either the office of Head of Service of the Federation or that of Secretary to the Government of the Federation. “We call on the National Assembly  to also step in, to ensure that this controversial and dangerously-selective policy does not see the light of the day.” Meanwhile, in view of the importance of  NCS to national security, we think the DSS too needs to be part of the  process that will promote respect for the rule of law in rewarding personnel of the service in general and on the philosophy of first-among-equals. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity