The General Overseer of the New Life for all Nations Ministries, Pastor Sunday Edokpayi, has advised Christians not to deviate from evangelism, stressing that it remains the core responsibility of Christians and the only means that guarantees salvation of souls as well as populating the kingdom of God. Edokpayi made this known during the opening of the church’s open freedom crusade at St David’s Anglican Primary School, Aroro-Yerokun, Igbo Oloyin/Ojoo, Ibadan, with the theme, “Free Indeed”, a programme staged to begin the 50 years anniversary of the church. The cleric also noted that evangelism has remained the church priority from its foundation and that it was a welcome development that the church has followed the legacy of its founding fathers in the last 50 years. “We are starting the crusade with the light of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of our great ministry. We started with crusades, and now that we clocked 50, we want to lay another foundation of a new beginning with another crusade. This crusade is a major event to commence the golden jubilee anniversary. We also have other activities to mark the anniversary. We recently held a retreat for our ministers; ministers’ wife, and women leadership to rekindle their fire as well as refreshed their minds of the goal of the ministry. “A lot of activities have been outlined for the anniversary till the end of the year. Aside the four-day crusade, we held a free medical care on February 26 and we will dedicate a new church on February 27, at Aroro-Yerokun, neigbourhood. The crusade we had 50 years ago at the mother church gave birth to about 400 branches all over the world today. We will also unveil laudable projects in the cause of the celebration,” he added. The Director of Mission and Outreach, Pastor Bamidele Lasisi also told Tribune church News, the crusade will reignite and enhance the liberation of Christians in Nigeria and beyond, just as he urged Christians not to relent in evangelising the gospel of Christ to all the nooks and crannies of the world. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity