Equities trading at the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) closed flat on Tuesday to peg the benchmark index at 47,064.82 basis points. Specifically, the All Share Index (ASI) closed relatively flat to settle at 47,064.82 basis points as against 47,063.23 basis points recorded at the end of trading activities on Monday. The performance thus brought the month-to-date and year-to-date outings of the All-Share Index to stand at 0.94 per cent and 10.18 per cent respectively, just as the market capitalization followed suit the direction of the ASI to stand at N25.362 trillion, having closed flat from the N25.361 trillion it stood at the end of the previous trading session. Market breadth, however, closed in favour of the bulls with 28 counters in the gainers’ chart pitted against 21 counters in the losers’ chart. Learn Africa earned the best performing stock on Tuesday, followed by Morison, ORISON, RTBriscoe, Veritas Kapital and Nascon to complete the list of the top five gainers. Conversely, Berger shed the most weight to lead the laggards’ chart, closely trailed by CHI Plc, Jaiz Bank, International Breweries and EcoBank Transnational Incorporated to complete the top losers’ chart. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Sectorial indices recorded mixed outing with NGX INS up by 1.51 per cent to gain the most weight, as NGX Banking lost 1.01 per cent to shed the most weight, while NGX Growth and NGX ASEM closed flat. Market activity as measured by both volume and value shed weight in the session with daily traded volume standing at 274.207 million units, representing a 18.88 per cent drop from a volume of 338.025 million units traded in the previous session. Value of traded stocks waned by 32.74 per cent in the session to stand at N3.817 billion as against a value of N5.675 billion recorded in the previous trading session. Access Bank dominated the volume charts as the top traded stock by volume for the trading session, followed by Guinness Nigeria, Japaul Gold, Sterling Bank and E-Tranzact to complete the list of the five most traded stocks by volume. With regards to the value of traded stocks, Guinness Nigeria took the lead of the top five performers as well, flanked by Access Bank, MTN Nigeria, FlourMills of Nigeria and Guaranty Trust Holding Company.