President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR has requested the Senate to confirm Mr Olugbenga Adeyanju, AIG (Rtd) from Ekiti State as Commissioner of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) representing South-West. The request was contained in a letter forwarded to the senate and read on the floor by the Senate Ahmad Lawan on Wednesday. The nomination is in conformity with the provision of Section 3 (3) (a) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000 Cap. C31 Laws of the Federation 2004, which provides that “a retired police officer not below the rank of Commissioner of Police” must be part of the composition of the Anti Corruption Commission. AIG Adeyenju is to replace earlier nominated Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade. The President in a previous letter dated 14th September 2021, had requested the upper chamber to confirm Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade alongside four others as Commissioners of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). However, the need to fully comply with the provisions of the extant Act has necessitated the substitution. Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, an accomplished nurse, pharmacist and physician, was also former Ekiti State Commissioner for Health. She had earlier been successfully screened by the Senate Committee on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes but in view of the substitution, she has now been appointed by the President as a Full-time Commissioner (compensation) in the National Salaries Income and Wages Commission in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act establishing the said Commission. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate