The traditional marriage (engagement) compering industry will witness a boost in knowledge sharing and networking on March 2, as the ‘Alagas’ as they are called, will converge in Lagos for a symposium tagged ‘The Exceptional Alaga (TEA)’ conference 2022. Organised by Abiola Oluwakitan Amoke (popularly known as Dr. Amoke Alaga), the event, according her was necessitated by the need to learn from experiences and forge among practitioners in their industry. In a chat with the Nigerian Tribune, She said, “Traditional compering industry has grown tremendously over the past decades, there is virtually no traditional marriage particularly in the South-West that doesn’t have the input or services of an ‘Alaga’ as we are fondly called. “However, there is no doubt that there have been numerous unprofessional activities evidenced in some of the services of some traditional engagement comperes (Alagas) in the industry, and if rapid measures are not put in place to curtail such, there will be high level of misconceptions in the minds of major stakeholders within and outside the event Industry both home and across the globe. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “Therefore, borne out of the need to change the narrative and current trends in the event industry with regards to traditional compering, the Amoke Alaga events team is organising a symposium tagged “The Exceptional Alaga” which is aimed at putting things in the right perspective in the industry. Moreover, protecting Nigerian cultural values is one out of numerous ways to achieve this objective”. The event, according to her is in its third year and promises to be exceptionally experimental as notable established event industry professionals and stakeholders will be brought in as keynote speakers among which are Mrs. Funke Bucknor (Zapphaire Events), Totoola Olabisi (Bisto production), Mr. Olanrewaju Ajose (Cares Events), Mrs. Bolatito Okolie (Bonix Drinks) will be speaking to an array of registered participants at the conference. There will also be a panelist session featuring Mrs. Oluomo Victoria Bolanle – (Lady B Oluomo) and Mrs. Kehinde Afe – (Omoge Afe Alarina) as well as other speakers. There will also be a Gala night (Dinner and Awards ceremony), where a number of industry and recognition awards will be given to deserving professionals for their remarkable performances in standardising the Alaga industry. “TEA conference 3.0 will be an avenue for attendees to meet, connect, network, collaborate, break new grounds”, Amoke stressed.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity