The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command of Nigeria Police, has arrested a 33-year-old man, Joseph Mbounu Ifeanyi, in connection with the death of one young lady Evelyn Omape Alifia Yakubu, in Lugbe Area of the FCT. Following a report by one Aduojo Daniel Yakubu lodged at the Trademore Division Police headquarters, investigative assets of the Command. In a statement made available to pressmen via the Police Public Relations Officer of the FCT Police Command in Abuja, DSP Josephine Adeh, the FCT commissioner of Police, Babaji Sunday stated that upon visitation, the deceased was found dead in her residence on February 21, 2022. According to the statement, “all efforts to take the corpse to the morgue for the necessary actions proved abortive as the family of the deceased insisted on immediately burying the corps due to the state of the body at discovery point.” The statement further stated that; “Preliminary investigations have however revealed that the principle suspect, Joseph Mbounu Ifeanyi, an Electrical Technician, was last seen with the deceased before the discovery of her death, that Joseph actually called to inform the deceased family members of her demise and had since been out of reach until his arrest. “The case has been absorbed by the State Criminal Investigations Department (SCID), where investigation is being intensified and further discoveries would be made public.” The FCT boss stated. Babaji while registering his condolence with the family and friends of deceased, has called for calm. He assured that no stone would be left unturned in unraveling the cause of death of Evelyn and ensuring that justice will be served. The Commissioner also refuted allegations in the public parlance that the Police demanded the sum of three hundred thousand (300,000.00) from the family of the deceased which slowed down investigations into the matter stating that the report is untrue and unfounded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity