The University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT) and the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) have emerged as the winners of the debate and quiz categories respectively. The events took place from the 13th to 19th of February 2022 where students from 23 universities in Nigeria competed at three major events namely quiz, debate and public speaking. The host institution, the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) came second in the debate as Micheal Okpara University of Agriculture came third in the debate contest. In the quiz contest, Bowen University and the University of Lagos came second and third respectively.  Additionally, in the public speaking contest, Bowen University, University of Calabar and the University of Nigeria, Nsukka took 1st, 2nd and 3rd positions respectively. The convener of the tournament, Lawal Ahmed in his remark appreciated the schools that attended the competitions as he seeks more institutions participation at events like this. He further emphasized the significant sponsorship and promotion for the All Nigerian Universities debate and quiz competitions by mega organisations and institutions in the country. The award ceremony which was held on Friday 18th February 2022 saw the presentations of awards, trophies and medals to deserving individuals and winning institutions. The Local organizing committee chairman, Dr A. A. Owoade declared his appreciation to the University management and members of the committee for a successful hosting as he emphasised the need for sponsors for the event going forward. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.…