The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), on Thursday, said it has commenced investigation into the cause of the explosion at Ukpokiti field (OML 108) in Delta State. The explosion had led to a major fire on an evacuation vessel at the field. In a statement issued by its Spokesperson, Paul Osu, the Commission said there were no reported cases of any casualties or fatalities. It assured that it will take necessary measures to ensure that all safety and environmental measures in line with global best practices to safeguard lives and the environment are put in place. “The Commission in line with its statutory regulatory oversight of Upstream Petroleum operations in the Nigerian oil and gas industry has commenced investigations into the incident in conjunction with relevant stakeholders and will provide updates appropriately,” the statement read. Management of Shebah Exploration and Production Company Ltd. (SEPCOL) had, on Wednesday, confirmed a fire incident at its offshore Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FSPO) facility. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. We’re investigating cause of Ukpokiti field explosion ― NUPRC MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details