DESPITE claims that a particular aspirant may have secured the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari for the national chairmanship post of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the APC leader will only support a candidate agreed to by the ruling party. Once that point is reached, the decision will be made known to Nigerians. This is the position of the presidency, which informed Sunday Tribune that the president will tag along with whoever the party settles for as its candidate. President Buhari has already directed the party hierarchy to explore the consensus option in arriving at who becomes the next boss of the APC. The party has also zoned the post to the north central geopolitical zone where most of the aspirants in the race to succeed Mai Mala Buni, the current chairman of the national caretaker leadership and governor of Yobe State, are from. Some aspirants are thought to be dropping the name of the President in their bid to gain advantage over others. A report emerged last week that President Buhari had endorsed a former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdulahi as the chairman of the party. Adamu was the chairman of the APC reconciliation committee that went round states in the country trying to resolve differences among aggrieved members of the party. Others aspirants are, however, said to be kicking against what they perceive as an attempt to scheme them out of the contest. However, the presidency said Saturday that President Buhari’s choice for the party top job will be the choice agreed by the APC. It also affirmed that it is not aware that some of the aspirants are using the name of the President to their advantage. The Special Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity), Femi Adesina, told Sunday Tribune on phone: “If there is a chairman agreed by the party, it will be announced.” On the aspirants using the name of the president, the presidential spokesman said he was not aware. Meanwhile, in continuation of his consultation with leaders and stakeholders within the party, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, a top aspirant for the national chairmanship position of APC, visited the Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai on Saturday. Sani Musa, alongside members of his campaign team, was received by El-Rufai and the duo was said to have had a “fruitful deliberation on the need to further reposition the APC as a party with the right leadership, the national convention and on the need for the party to strategise and open for all Nigerians ahead of the 2023 general elections and beyond.” Sani Musa told his host the reason for seeking his support and also highlighted his plans for the party if elected. In his response, el-Rufai commended Musa for his “doggedness and integrity which he believes are tools for good leadership,” just as he promised to give him support and further advised that he should continue his consultation and reaching out to all the governors and other stakeholders as the convention draws nearer ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity