Two students, male and female of Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK), Awka were on Sunday last week, found dead at a private Hostel in the school. A source close to the University said the room one of the William’s Lodge was forced open following heavy stench oozing out from the room. The source said due to the level of decay which caused the heavy stench the duo might have died some days ago without their neighbours being aware. The cause of the death was not clear but some students believe there might have been a physical brawl between the duo that led to their death. A source said one of the probable causes of their death was that the boy in the course of their fight might have strangulated the girl believed to be his girlfriend and realising that the girl was dead, took his own life. The Police in the company of the SUG officials and the parents of the girl were said to have evacuated the corpses this evening to a morgue in Awka for further investigation. The Anambra Police Spokesperson, DSP Ikenga Tuchukwu, who confirmed the incident said the narrative was not correct but revealed that there was no stench. The girl was not answering calls which got her parents worried. They reported to the Police who forced the door open. No mark of violence on the bodies. They died apparently from carbon monoxide poisoning from generator fumes. The generator was found in an enclosure facing the room. The police further said the cause of their death will be ascertained after autopsy. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects