Inflation is defined as a rise in consumer goods and services prices within an economy. As inflation rises, the Australian dollar (AUD) loses its purchasing power because consumers need more dollars to buy the same items they could purchase with fewer dollars before. For example, if one can get a loaf of bread for $1 last year, but this year it costs $1.50, the actual value of the dollar has decreased by 50%, all other things constant. Similarly, when inflation increases, one will require more nominal dollars (the regular number of dollars you see) to acquire an item than one did previously. This decrease in spending power shows itself on paper through an exchange rate decrease between AUD and foreign currencies like USD or EUR. When inflation rises, investments that offer fixed returns lose their purchasing power because the number of dollars they return is worthless. For example, if one were to invest $10,000 in a bond that pays 3% interest per year, one would expect to take away around $300- this would fall to about $270 if inflation rose 2%. This loss of purchasing power hurts forex traders because they cannot use the money they gain from selling their currencies for as much as before. Australian bonds and other savings accounts are subject to inflation, just like traders are. If an Australian has $1000 in cash or $1000 in bonds that pay 5%, it may seem like the person has 500 more than they did before inflation. However, this is not the case – $5000 would have been required to buy what $500 could previously buy, so there has been a decrease in spending power. Therefore, they would have less to spend on their forex trades. As inflation rises, the price of non-tradable items like property and collectables rises. If an individual owns one of these items, their investment will suffer since anything they buy with that money will be more expensive than before, thus decreasing its actual value. For example, if one bought a piece of real estate for $100,000 less than two years ago but now sells said real estate for $110,000, the buyer is only willing to pay $105,000- still lower than what they would have paid had inflation not occurred. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE TO READ: If a person uses other trading means to diversify their portfolio, they will have less money to use in their forex trading if inflation occurs. Since inflation decreases one’s buying power, any investments made under the assumption that there would be no inflation will see reduced returns after the fact if they do happen to occur (i.e., stocks and trickle-down economics). Furthermore, since forex traders make their money from selling currencies at a higher price than they bought them before – if there was 1% inflation and you sold $100 for $101 but then needed $102 to buy the same loaf of bread you did before, you would have lost money. Forex traders pay close attention to inflation data because it can signal a change in interest rates, which will affect currency prices. Central banks tend to raise interest rates when dealing with high inflation by selling bonds and decreasing the money supply, thus increasing the currency price as investors require more dollars/pounds/etc. For each bond they purchase, there is increased demand for foreign currencies and decreased demand for domestic currencies. When inflation rises, interest rates decrease as the market responds to central banks raising interest rates to combat this- this causes investors to flock to investments that offer a set return rather than those that fluctuate. For example, if one were to invest $10,000 in a bond that pays 3% interest per year and inflation was 2%, one would expect their investment balance after five years to be around $11,900 – which is about $1,100 more than what was expected before considering inflation. 