Members of the Academic Staff Union Of Nigerian universities (ASUU), Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife branch on Thursday staged a peaceful protest around the university campus to press home their demand for the disbursement of their Earned Academic Allowance (EAA) by the school authority. The protest attracted the presence of ASUU representatives from Benin, Lagos, Akure, Ondo, and other parts of the states in solidarity with the branch union of the university. The protesters who condemned the Vice-chancellor of the university, Professor Eyitayo Ogunbodede whom they claimed was behind the non-payment of their EAA allowances, poised for war against him, with affirmation that, he has invited war on himself and they will give him war. Speaking during the protest, the Chairman of ASUU in the University, Dr Adeola Egbedokun, said there is no going back on the strike action embarked upon by the union until their demands are met by the university authorities. Egbedokun who accused the vice-chancellor of the institution of being unnecessarily being wicked to the union, vowed to make the strike to be “No retreat, No surrender”. He, however, maintained that “payment of EAA must be based on ASUU computation. Anything short of this would be unacceptable. The Strike Coordinating Committee be set up to monitor the strike.” In his reaction, the university public relations officer, Mr Abiodun Olanrewaju, insisted that there are two different groups which are, the ASUU and the Congress of Academic Union of Nigeria University(COAUNU), who are to be given the allowance and both of them are at loggerheads and refused to communicate with the school authority on the modality, it will use to disburse the allowance to them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details