 The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev Yakubu Pam has said that the Commission is set for the 2021 general pilgrimage exercise. He said this recently in Amman, Jordan when he and his delegation inspected the hotels in Jordan. Pam and his delegations were pleased with the hotels they inspected in Jordan, according to him” the wellbeing of my pilgrims is most paramount to me.”  Some of the hotels were declared dead on arrival as the facilities did not meet up with the standard and requirement of the delegation. The delegation on the State of Readiness visited Bethany, which is beyond the Jordan; where they saw the traditional baptismal site of Jesus Christ; site also visited was Mount Nebo, here, the delegation marveled at the view where Moses looked across to the Promised Land and where he was later buried. Prayers were said by the NCPC Board Chairman, Rev. Yomi Kasali on the Mount. The NCPC boss also conducted an inspection of the aircraft at the Queen Alia Airport, alongside representatives of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, (NCAA) and affirmed that the aircraft used by the Commission is an operational aircraft. The NCAA already has a longtime relationship with the Jordanian aviation authorities and as such, no problem should be envisaged, they informed that the technical inspection of the aircraft would be conducted three weeks before the commencement of the pilgrimage exercise. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NCPC set for 2021  NCPC set for 2021 Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NCPC set for 2021  NCPC set for 2021