Ahead of its national convention scheduled to hold on February 26, the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has disclosed that certain amendments in its 2014 Constitution (as amended) would be ratified at the meeting of its highest organ. National Secretary of the APC CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe disclosed this in a statement on Friday. A Constitution Review Committee led by Tahir Mamman OON, ( SAN) was inaugurated last March, fuelling speculation that a report of the recommendations made by the Senator Muiz Banire Committee earlier saddled with the same assignment would be discarded. Article 30 (iii) of the Party Constitution stipulated that the notice for amendment must be served at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the National Convention at which the proposed amendments are to be considered. Senator Akpanudoedehe disclosed in the statement that a statutory organ of the Party, the Board of Trustees now has a new name, the APC Advisory Council with streamlined memberships and clear powers and functions. An investigation by Tribune Online revealed that since the inception of the party in February 2013, its Board of Trustees never existed as it was never constituted. The new draft also reduced the number of members of the proposed Advisory Council “to streamline composition.” Senator Akpanudoedehe further disclosed that the Mamman Committee adopted an all-inclusive approach which led to the draft proposals to mitigate ambiguities in the Constitution; Fill gaps that became apparent, Recognize and expand platforms for the participation of critical groups such as women, youth, and persons with disabilities. Aside from replacing the Board of Trustees, it also created zonal congresses and clarified powers of National Executive Committee (NEC) and National Working Committee (NWC). YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…APC to ratify amended  APC to ratify amended Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…APC to ratify amended  APC to ratify amended