As part of efforts geared towards strengthening police reform in Nigeria, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has commenced training of participants for the Police Station Visitors Week (PSVW) scheduled to commence from next week Monday. Declaring the training opened on Wednesday in Abuja, the Executive Secretary of the NHRC, Tony Ojukwu (SAN) said the training of visitors on the use of the checklist for the police station visitors week is in furtherance of the Commission’s mandate to carry out periodic audit of places of detention across the country. This, he said will ensure that practices in those detention centres conform with human rights standards, adding also that it will enhance police accountability, identify good practices and documenting challenges that may exist. “This is with a view to making recommendations to appropriate authorities for improvement in respect for human rights,” he said. He added that the police stations are selected based on the geographical spread and will cover one state per geo-political zone and Abuja. The States are, Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue, Oyo, Imo, Edo and FCT. While calling on participants to justify the resources spent on them for the exercise, Ojukwu said, the audit exercises are not meant to witch-hunt anyone or any institution but aimed at ensuring that human rights are promoted and protected, including the rights of people in detention. In a goodwill message, the Acting Director of CLEEN Foundation, Ruth Olofin said the training for participants was a significant one as it is aimed at improving policing in the country. She said the program will ensure that detention centres are human rights accounting and added that police reform cannot happen in isolation, without the involvement of members of the community. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Human Rights Commission trains people to visit police detention facility Human Rights Commission trains people to visit police detention facility