Senator Lekan Balogun will be inaugurated as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadan land on March 11. This followed Governor Seyi Makinde’s approval of the March 11 date as communicated in a letter to the Olubadan-designate, on Tuesday. The letter signed by Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Dr Bashir Olanrewaju addressed to Senator Lekan Balogun, titled: “Installation Ceremony: Olubadan of Ibadan’, affirmed the governor’s approval of the March 11 date. The letter read, “I wish to refer to a letter No.18SELG.243TI/17 of 16 February, 2022 on the above subject and inform you that His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Oyo State has approved Friday, 11 of March, 2022 as the date of the Installation of the New Olubadan of Ibadan. Once again, Congratulations, Kabiyesi.” It will be recalled that Makinde had on February 14 approved Balogun’s emergence following a recommendation to that effect made by the Olubadan-in-Council which was communicated to the governor. The emergence of the inauguration date came amid yearnings of Ibadan indigenes for a new Olubadan of Ibadan land to be inaugurated since the demise of Oba Saliu Adetunji. Among others who had been visiting the Alarere residence of Balogun, Ibadan Mogajis had on Tuesday made some requests towards the growth, progress and development of Ibadanland. In the letters presented to the new Olubadan and which were signed by Mogaji Nurudeen Akinade (Coordinator), Mogaji Asimiyu Adepoju Ariori (President, Association of Mogajis of Ibadanland) and the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) President-General, Prince Yemisi Adeaga, the Mogajis expressed concern about youth restiveness culminating in pockets of the breach of peace in Ibadan land. As a way of preventing miscreants from gaining entrance into Ibadan Traditional system, the Mogajis requested that they be given the power and authority to conduct background check on whoever is being considered for appointment as a Chief be it traditional or honorary. They commended the Olubadan and his Council members for the decision to make appointment of chiefs less financial inducing with a prayer that God would grant the new Olubadan long life filled with robust and sound health. However, the Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Owolabi Olakulehin while responding to the requests made by the Association of Mogajis of Ibadanland cautioned that there was little the Olubadan-designate could do until he is officially inaugurated as Olubadan. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity