The operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) have killed a suspected smuggler identified as Abdulrosheed Dada, as they engaged smugglers. Tribune Online also learnt that two others were injured in the clash, in an encounter that happened with the NCS operatives on Ayetoro road, near Abeokuta, on Saturday. The NCS operatives were said to intercept some bags of foreign rice smuggled into the country through the Republic of Benin into Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. The smugglers were reported to have engaged the Customs operatives when they attempted to seize the contraband goods. The victim was said to have been called by his colleagues to the scene of the incident before the incident occurred. .A source said, “Abdulrosheed had gone to Abeokuta for a party before he was called by some friends, whose goods have been intercepted by customs officers. “By the time he got there, the issue has turned chaotic and the officers started shooting. The officers opened fire on them. Dada died, while two others sustained gunshot injuries.” The spokesman of the Ogun Area 1 command of the NCS, Ahmed Oloyede, said he has not been briefed about the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.- Customs, smugglers clash claims one in Ogun Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Customs, smugglers clash claims one in Ogun