Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that troops foiled an attack by bandits in Ungwan Garama, located in the Maraban Rido general area of Chikun Local Government Area of the state. According to the report, a distress call was received from the area and security forces swiftly responded, mobilizing to the location and engaging the bandits. In a statement issued by the commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, on Monday, contender that after an intense exchange, the superior firepower of the troops forced the criminals to flee in disarray. The security forces exploited the withdrawal route of the bandits and were thus able to rescue seven persons who had been kidnapped. The seven rescued persons according to the statement are Buba Samuel, Janet Buba,  Rebecca Buba Precious Buba, David Yohanna Johnson Yohanna and John Daniel. The statement further said, ‘all of the rescued have been reunited with their families. “Receiving the report, Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i commended the security forces for their spirited efforts and speed of response. He congratulated them on the safe rescue of the seven citizens. The governor also conveyed his warm regards and best wishes to the rescued persons. “Security forces have sustained patrols in the general area,” the statement declared. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Troops foil attack, rescue seven persons in Kaduna MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details