The 2021 unaudited Insurance Industry performance in Nigeria shows that insurance firms paid the sum of N238.05 billion as net claims in the fiscal year under review. The Head, Corporate Communications and Market Development, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Rasaaq Salami, who released the figures on Monday in Abuja, added that the Nigerian insurance industry’s total assets rose from N2.02 trillion in 2020 to N2.13 trillion in 2021. According to Mr Salami, during the period under review, the Nigerian insurance companies earned a total gross premium income of N630.36 billion (unaudited) as against the N520 billion (audited) recorded in 2020. The Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer of NAICOM, Mr Olorundare Thomas, had during a recent conference for insurance directors with the theme, “Insurance industry in a changing world”, warned the management of insurance companies in Nigeria against refusal to pay claims. He said the issue of claims settlement was threatening various measures implemented by the NAICOM to reposition the insurance industry and make it contribute significantly to the country’s Gross Domestic Product. Mr Thomas stated that the insurance business is about payment of genuine claims and anything short of that will continue to hurt the insurance business in the country thereby giving the industry poor reputation. The NAICOM boss urged the Directors to work closely with their management as a lot is expected from them to take the industry to the next level and make it more responsive to the country’s expectations. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past.Insurance firms record N630bn income, pay N238bn claims, says NAICOM Insurance firms record N630bn income, pay N238bn claims, says NAICOM