In its bid to ensure efficient service delivery and staff productivity, the Human Resources Department of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) has embarked on a 3-Day capacity building Workshop for its staff. According to the Director-General of NDE, Mallam Abubakar Nuhu Fikpo, the training tagged ‘Capacity Building Workshop for Requisite Work Ethics and Right Attitude for Efficient Service Delivery’ is aimed to increase competencies in citizens focused service delivery. Mallam Fikpo who was represented by the Director, Human Resources Management Department of NDE, Mrs Awulat Shafaru said the workshop is also a path to job satisfaction and will further strengthen staff productivity for efficient service delivery. “The aim of this Workshop is to share experiences, acquire more skills in Human Resource Management and to inspire us to be focused on the mission, vision and core values of the Directorate, increase competencies in citizens focused service delivery, improve knowledge of how to deliver set service standards and Strengthening Effective Grievance Redress Mechanism. “At the end of this workshop Officers will be more enriched, acquainted and updated with Public Service Rules as a guide to every Civil Servant,” he said. The Lead Consultant of the training, Arc. Zubairu Usman said the essence of training and re-training civil servants is to make them relevant to what is happening within their organization and around the world. “The essence of this training is to equip them with the knowledge, skills and right attitude to work efficiently and effectively. “The training will be very impactful to NDE in particular and the Nigerian Civil Service in general to the extent that they now know what is required of them in terms of work ethics, attitude because attitude is one of the problems confronting this country,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details