A 25-year-old bandit, Naziru Sani, has confessed to killing over 20 persons in separate attacks in Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto States. Sani also narrated how he got N20,000 or N30,000 after each raid led by terror kingpin, Bello Turji. Sani, who hails from Makera village in the Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State told journalists while being paraded by the police in Katsina that he belonged to the Turji terror gang. He said: “I belong to a gang led by Bello Turji who is currently hiding in Jangebe forest in Zamfara. Turji commands over 200 deadly armed men. For me, I’ve killed over 20 people with an AK-48 rifle in different attacks where I earned N20,000 or N30,000. “I was arrested early today on my way to Suleja in Niger State, leaving my family in Zamfara,” he said. A spokesperson for the Katsina State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, paraded Sani alongside other criminals, saying they terrorised states in the North-West. While parading the suspect, Isah said police operatives apprehended him along Jabiri Quarters in the Funtua Local Government Area of Zamfara State after receiving credible information from residents. “In the course of the investigation, the suspect confessed to being a terrorist-bandit under the leadership of a notorious terrorist ‘Bello Turji’, who has been on the commands’ wanted list.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details