The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr  Yakubu Pam has visited the Commission’s North Central Zonal Office, Gwagwalada to ascertain the situation on ground with a view to addressing them. Pam, who led his team to the zone recently, assured that more number of intending pilgrims would be airlifted to the holy land this year than last year. Briefing the North Central Zonal office staff on the preparedness of the Commission for the 2021 General Pilgrimage, the NCPC boss explained that the zonal officers have more work to do this year, considering the fact that they are closer to the people and can be easily accessed. The NCPC boss, however, charged the zonal staff members to ensure that all hands are on deck to enable the commission realise its 10, 000 target for this year intending pilgrims. Earlier, the zonal coordinator of the North Central Zonal Office, Mr Nicholas Kiva, condoled the Executive Secretary over the loss of his mother and prayed that God will grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Kiva also commended Rev. Yakubu Pam for being the first Executive Secretary to pay a familiarisation visit to the zone since its relocation from Makurdi to Gwagwalada in 2019. He applauded the NCPC boss for the success of the recently concluded state of readiness visit to Israel and Jordan. The zonal coordinator further spoke on the need for NCPC to charge the mobilisation strategy of the commission by getting the church involved in promoting Christian pilgrimage. Meanwhile, during the visit NCPC boss inspected activities at the zonal office after which, he expressed satisfaction with the staff. He was accompanied on the familiarisation visit by the Director of Mobilisation, Mr Chris Udegbunam and the Head of operations Mr Abu Okpanachi. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NCPC boss pays familarisation  NCPC boss pays familarisation Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NCPC boss pays familarisation  NCPC boss pays familarisation ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity