Bombs, suspected to  Improvised Explosive Ordinance  Devices (IEODs) were said to have  exploded again on Friday at Galadima Kogo, in Shiroro LGA of  Niger State.  The explosion was coming barely five days  after bomb blasts suspected to be  Impoverised Explosives  Ordinance Devices took place last Monday in the same community, last Monday, killing no fewer than about four Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) attached to the state’s Command of the organization. According to the statement issued and made available to Journalists over the weekend in Minna, the casualty figure could not be ascertained immediately, while the affected areas were yet unaccessible due to fears of further possible explosions. It added, however, that though preliminary reports were not,  suggestive of any loss, praying “May Almighty Allah continue to ease our predicaments by urgently coming to our rescue (Ameen).” ￼Meanwhile, concerted efforts by our reporter to confirm the incident from the Police Public Relations Officer, Niger State Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, was however unsuccessful as of the time of filing this report on Saturday in Minna. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity