Information Systems Audit, Assurance, Control, Security (ISACA), has risen to elevate the millennium development goals eight and nine to promote and ensure secured industry in the Nigerian economy. Goals eight, focused on evolving a decent work and economic growth while goal nine, strived to promote industry innovation and infrastructure in an economy. Addressing the media in Abuja, President of Information Systems Audit, Assurance, Control, Security (ISACA), Emmanuel Omoke said the organisation was in Nigeria to engender peer review and competition among notable individuals and organisations in Information Systems Audit, Assurance, Control, Security, IT Governance, Risk Management and Cybersecurity. He said the organisation has been in the forefront of promoting the development and education of IT Security, Governance, Assurance, Risk and Control globally. ISACA Abuja Chapter has been recognised by ISACA at the global level as a front runner in growing the professional association in Nigeria. Omoke maintained that the cyber security can be improved as the organisation serve as a veritable barometer for assessing positive contributions to the growth and development of Information Systems Audit, Assurance, Control, Security, IT Governance, Risk Management and Cybersecurity. He noted that while it was important to Communicate the many dividends of Information Systems Audit, Assurance, Control, Security, IT Governance, Risk Management and Cybersecurity, IT firms must continue to service their firms against infiltration of any kind. He called on stakeholders to ensure that CEOs, policy makers, opinion leaders, journalists and civil society groups are galvanized to play advocacy roles in generating support for ISACA and its mission in Nigeria. It noted that as part of efforts to promote positive competition among IT firms, ICASA would present awards in various categories to respective individuals and organisations to drive cyber security in Nigeria as part of its mission. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate