Medical Tourism in India is once again gaining apace and is considered to be one of the most emerging sectors in the Indian economy, especially in terms of foreign exchange. India offers a plethora of medical treatment options and modern allopathic treatment options, which are not only easily accessible but also very affordable. ClinicSpots, India’s leading holistic healthcare portal with medical tourism service is eager to serve medical tourists with premier healthcare services pan India. Currently, ClinicSpots serves medical tourists from Bangladesh, Nigeria, Iraq, South African countries and South East Asian countries with quality concierge support during their stay in India for medical treatment.  ClinicSpots also offers an intuitive healthcare Q and A platform for doctors and patients to interact and thereby giving an opportunity to seek the most suitable medical treatment for their ailments and conditions. Over the years, the Indian medical ecosystem has evolved as an amalgamation of modern and alternative treatment approaches towards recovery, rejuvenation, and total wellness. Our underlying strength lies in our dynamism to accept the new medical treatments in combination with age-old and time-tried healing methods to offer better outcomes. Also, at times, change of environment and medical support works wonders in speeding the healing process. As a result, we have examples of many miraculous recoveries from long-standing ailments to relate to.  India one of the fastest developing countries in Asia and the globe boasts of nearly 30+ JCI accredited hospitals pan India. Moreover, with most brilliant doctors and super specialists serving the patients, India is certainly on par with medical treatment offered by the USA and other developed countries. In the Medical Tourism Index 2020-21 released by the Medical Tourism Association, India is at the 10th position among 46 countries. Despite the COVID 19 pandemic, the medical tourism sector is shaping up well and likely to cross more than $15 billion(approx) in the coming years. Also, India caters to medical tourists from Iraq, Pakistan, Oman, Bangladesh, Maldives, Afghanistan, and Mauritius. Similarly, India is competent to cater to medical tourists from Europe and the USA. How has India evolved as a medical tourist magnet? India has proved its mettle in offering top-quality healthcare environment and the latest medical procedures, especially cardiac surgeries, orthopedic surgeries, bariatric surgeries, cosmetic surgeries, cancer treatment, fertility treatment, and neurology & neurosurgery, which are the prominent ones. For instance, neurosurgery in India is on par with the latest neurosurgery treatments across the globe. Recently,Dr. Gurneet Singh Sawhney, a leading neurosurgeon in India performed a life saving surgery on a 3 YO girl from Mauritius who was suffering from a high grade brain tumor.  The girl approached Dr. Gurneet Singh Sawhney after she was refused medical treatment in other countries. Today, the girl has fully recovered and is growing normally and well.  Successful treatment of complicated neurosurgical cases speaks highly of premium quality medical treatment and care available in India. Premium quality healthcare services Healthcare in India is witnessing a surge in quality health infrastructure. Hospitals are equipped with state-of-the-art healthcare facilities with highly specialized treatment. Also, skilled and expert medical professionals are managing these hospitals and facilities. Following this, post-operative care and rehabilitation facilities are equally good and impressive. Medical tourists can look forward to undergoing the state of the art treatments for various issues such as neurosurgery, bariatric surgery, orthopedics – limb and joint replacement, organ transplant, cardiac problems, many more. India boasts of nearly 37 Joint Commission International (JCI) accredited hospitals and 513 National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) accredited hospitals in India. Medical tourists can opt for JCI Hospitals in Delhi, Mumbai, and other Tier 1 cities in India. Moreover, India has plans to establish more JCI-accredited hospitals pan India. Hospitals bearing The National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) accreditation are equally good and on par with their international counterparts with excellent outcomes for complicated and complex cases.  Top Class Allied Medical sectors Apart from hospitalization, medical treatment also includes diagnostic services, pharmaceutical drugs and medicines, rehabilitation services, new drug research, medical devices, and much more, which are extensively available pan India. Currently, India stands at the 4th position in the medical device market in Asia, likely to reach $50billion by 2025. On the other hand, 25% of the diagnostics segment is controlled by organized players with a market value of $4 billion. India is also known as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ as it exports medicines to more than 200 countries. It enjoys a high compliant rate, and its medicines are affordable and of top quality. Currently, India can deliver up to 62% of vaccines required worldwide. Cost of Treatment – The most decisive factor Yes, the cost of treatment is one of the most critical factors, especially when considering overseas travel. Out of the 19 most preferred elective medical procedures, 13 are quoted at the lowest price in India, while the remaining procedures fall in the moderate price bracket. Heart bypass surgeries cost least in India as compared to their cost in Singapore, Turkey, Malaysia and South Korea. On similar counts, cosmetic surgeries, chemotherapy, joint replacement surgeries are at a much lower cost in India than elsewhere in the world. India is considered a top wellness country in Asia Pacific, a ranking which places India in the Medical Value Tourism bracket. This bracket relates to the holistic health and well-being quotient and includes culture, food habits, and natural rejuvenation. The Ministry of AYUSH is dedicated to promoting and encourage human wellness through yoga, alternative therapies, and medication and rejuvenation using time tried and tested medical sciences. Ancient Indian culture emphasizes mental wellbeing for physical health, and this is possible through meditation and yoga along with intake of fresh and natural food diet. Ease and Speed in medical visa procurement have encouraged many tourists to visit India for their treatment. The process is seamless, and e-tourist visas for attending relatives and friends are issued without delay. Moreover, the visa provides for long-term stays and multiple entries. In a recent initiative, the ‘Heal in India’ campaign by the recently formed National Medical and Wellness Tourism Board. The Board will promote India as a medical and wellness tourism destination. They have an integrated communication strategy to promote India on lines of medical tourism. Post-COVID Medical Tourism in India Post-COVID medical scenario across the world remains to be grim. People are emerging from a traumatic experience yet require medical attention for issues relating to COVID or otherwise. Nevertheless, spiraling medical expenses longer waiting periods add more woes to their medical condition, especially in their home countries. These patients are compelled to look up to India for their treatment considering low-cost medical treatment with quality healthcare service augmented with support from the Government of India. Also, India has emerged as a resilient country regarding healthy living, preventive medicine, higher immunity levels, and better medical treatment. Therefore, India does raise the hope for people requiring prompt and low-cost medical treatment with high-quality wellness solutions. The quality healthcare and wellness offering is slated to give the much-needed thrust for accelerating India’s medical tourism sector.