With the shock, anger and general revulsion that followed the gruesome killing of 20-year-old Sofiat Kehinde, allegedly perpetrated by her boyfriend and three of his accomplices in Oke-Aregba, Itoko-Tuntun, Idi-Ape in Abeokuta, Ogun State on January 29, 2022, an end ought to have naturally come to our naivety about the pestilence that ritual killings for money has become among us. Or oughtn’t it? Only yesterday, in same Abeokuta, in an area called Leme, 43 year-old Kehinde Oladimeji and his wife, Adejumoke Raji, were arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for being in possession of fresh human breasts, hands and other parts kept in a bucket. In 1996, Owerri, the capital of Imo State, almost exploded when one Innocent Ekeanyanwu was arrested with the head of a young boy called Ikechukwu Okonkwo. The belief in human rituals for money, which modernity has not succeeded in killing, is as old as Africa and is still prevalent today in many parts of the continent. Secret societies and their killings were dominant in pre and post-colonial Africa. In 1945 for example, one Amos Oshinowo Shopitan wrote to a senior British official about his two-year old son who had been kidnapped and used for rituals. In 1946, a total of 161 persons were recorded by the colonial government as having been killed for rituals in the Ibibio area in present day Akwa Ibom State. In 1947, a United States consul reported that he had recorded 88 proven and 96 suspected cases of ritual murders in same Ibibio area. In virtually all parts of Africa, albino-hunting is a pastime. This species of nature’s creation with defects in skin pigmentation is a sought-after delicacy for rituals for money. Given so many names which range from Igbo’s onye aghali – one with strange white colour; Yoruba’s eni osa (persons of the gods) and zeru zeru – ghost – in Tanzania, so many myths of supernatural powers are woven round albinos. Today, irrespective of supersonic advancements in technology and diverse ways of making billions through taking advantage of modernity, there are pandemic beliefs in many parts of Africa, which have grown so luscious, that the body parts of albino bring wealth, power or sexual victory. For instance, in many parts of Southern Africa, it is believed that a sexual romp with a lady with albinism gives instant cure for HIV and AIDS. Albino victims have their body parts sold for thousands of dollars to Sangomas or witch doctors. In 2016, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) had announced that albino hunters sold a whole albino corpse for up to $75,000, while their arm or leg fetched as princely a sum as $2,000. In Malawi, authorities announced that, between January and May 2016, six albinos, who included a 17-year-old Davis Fletcher Machinjiri, killed while he went to watch a soccer match, had been discovered. Amnesty International, quoting the Malawian authorities, gave an account of how Machinjiri was killed thus: “About four men trafficked him to Mozambique and killed him. The men chopped off both his arms and legs and removed his bones. Then they buried the rest of his body in a shallow grave.” It looks as grotesque as the killing of Sofiat. Tanzania has its own share of this barbarism. About 75 albinos were reported to have been murdered between 2000 and 2016. Ikponwosa Ero, a person with albinism, in an interview, had said that albinos in Africa were endangered species and their situation, “a tragedy,” maintaining that the 7,000 to 10,000 albinos in Malawi and thousands of others in Tanzania, Mozambique and other countries, were “at the risk of extinction if nothing is done.” One other hot cake for rank-minded human parts ritualism in Africa is hunchbacks. The murder of Sofiat was particularly grotesque. It must have alerted both government and the governed that our society had gone past the stages of pretences and innocence. Her abductors, four teenage suspects of between 18 and 20 years, had allegedly killed her, severed off her head and burnt it almost into ashes in a mud pot, with her remains already packaged in a sack to be disposed off by the time they were arrested. For us as a people, I intend to argue in this piece, we are just crying over spilt milk and like a knock-kneed, we have refused to look at the foundation of our current problem of ritual killings. Our case is analogous to that of the proverbial bush rat which was complicit in its own calamity. While assailants were digging his hole, the bush rat refused to raise alarm and when he was arrested, roasted in the hot furnace, he raises his hands up above the head to raise alarm, which Yoruba express as, “Okete gbagbe ibosi, o de’gba alate, o ka’wo le’ri.” There is no denying the fact that we are a people who believe in achieving material successes through harnessing mystical powers. What those four teenage boys who killed Sofiat did was to go on a long shuttle into their African roots to borrow a leaf from our barbaric past. From creation, in the search for explanations to the physical and earthly things whose order and happenings are beyond their comprehension, Africans created a counterpoise for physical objects in the spiritual. To them, nothing happens in the physical without a corresponding occurrence in the spiritual. In this anthropomorphic belief, gods are behind the order of the universe and look over the affairs of men. That was why gods like Obatala, Sango, Ogun, Amadioha and the Arochukwu deities were created in Africans’ own image, unseen but with believed awesome powers that superintend over the affairs of man. The deities were worshipped with various objects. Stephen Ellis, British historian, Africanist, human rights activist and author of the famous book, This Present Crime: A History of Nigeria’s Organized Crime, said that “Nigerians, then and now, maintain a dialogue with the invisible realm, in effect trying to shape their own well-being through a process of negotiation with the spirit world.” One of such gods in West Africa is the Olokun. Olokun is an androgynous god or orisha, which means that it could be a man or a woman, depending on the people who worship it. The belief of Olokun worshippers is that it is the parent of Aje, the orisha that is in charge of great wealth and whose residence is at the bottom of the ocean. Olokun’s reputation as the ruler of bodies of water is legendary. It is also revered as the sole god with authority over water deities. It is said to possess the ability to give man great wealth, health and prosperity. To maintain a communication with the Olokun, a regime of murders by ordeal or ordeal by innocence was perpetrated. Human sacrifices to the gods were required and, added to the slavery experience – where man sold his fellow man for mirror and liquour – the heart of the African became as hard and scarred as the tortoise’s carapace. In 1912, the British Governor General, Lord Lugard, in a letter to his wife, Flora Shaw, said he had just dealt with a file that contained 744 murders by ordeal. Ordeal by innocence is a very severe or trying experience that was prevalent in pre-colonial Africa. As far back as the early 20th century, Nigerians’ renown for seeking material successes through mystical powers had gained the attention of British colonial power. J. K. Macgregor, Headmaster of the famous Calabar-based missionary school, Hope Waddell Institute, which Nnamdi Azikiwe attended, had detected over a hundred mails from abroad in the hands of his pupils. Writers of the letters promised the pupils, in the words of Ellis, “quack medicines and quack methods of treating diseases… magical works and letters from various societies that professed to give esoteric teachings that was sure to bring successes and happiness.” Those letters came from America, England and India. Macgregor was so bothered that in 1935, he wrote the Governor-General about it. It will appear that, having been smoked out by the EFCC and greater general awareness of their nefarious activities, which has made their preys to be on the alert, has affected the market of scam that the Yahoo Yahoo boys engage in. Thus, the human ritual market seems the next sought after. Unless we want to deceive ourselves, those four headhunter boys who murdered Sofiat in Abeokuta, the hunchback hunters, the albino scavengers of Tanzania mirror who we are as Africans. Centuries of preaching on the sacredness of the human body and the visible monumental strides of technology have not succeeded in impeaching our ancient beliefs in spiritualism and metaphysics and their manifestations in ancient primitivism and barbarism. We attribute great mystical powers to money, right from the beginning when cowries and iron bars became the means of exchange. Money today is more valuable in our estimation than the human life and we go to every length to have it. For us in Africa, money is not Mammon; it is life. Immortal Bob Marley counseled – many more will have to suffer – as we enter the election season preparatory to the 2023 elections, many will be used for sacrifices to get to offices by politicians. It is in sync with us. In the First Republic, the three regional political parties were built around secret societies. Ogboni society, which wielded enormous powers before colonial incursion, was consequential in political decisions. J. Y Peel, in his Religious Encounter and the Making of the Yoruba (2000) had noted that Yoruba use human beings, especially strangers, as sacrifices, at funerals for important people. Mortuary killings have been very prevalent since ancient days. In 1847, when Basorun Oluyole of Ibadan died, 70 people were killed to act as his consorts in the hereafter. Today, there is a rat race to embrace Olokun, the sea goddess of money. Those days, if you didn’t have money but have character, you were given a pride of place in society. Today, character without money is dead. Get-rich race has become pandemic. Politicians, governments and Nigerian leaders in general are patrons of this social order. It began first with the god-ification of money and then, a huge war waged on the merit system. The church has also helped fester this mindset with the pride of place it gives to money and wealth. General Overseers live in magnificent, superfluous and stupendous wealth gotten from subverting the minds of congregants through religious scams. They openly and unabashedly call for billion naira donations to church and bother less to crosscheck sources of wealth donors. This cancer has eaten so deep that today, parents help their children to pad up scamming ventures. They take them for spiritual fortification in shrines of pastors, diviners and marabouts. It will be naïve, unrealistic and wrong to say that rituals of human body parts for money are ineffective. Or that the metaphysics of human sacrifice does not have an effective science to it. As Africans, we cannot deny the existence of metaphysics like Austrian philosopher, Ludwig Wittgenstein who called it nonsensical. A dark practice like this which has endured for centuries cannot be waved aside that peremptorily. Or else we are saying that our forefathers, reputed with those inventions that still subsist till today, were ignoramuses. They were not. Human rituals are a fact of existence with their own grotesque science known only to the practitioners. However, a time has come for Africa to join the rest of the world to do away with the crudity, barbarity and primitivity of human rituals. Governments should first make life livable for their people, so that human beings can return to their love for themselves and put money in its secondary place in the scheme of things. Today, the extreme poverty afflicting the populace has turned them to beasts who pawn themselves for cash. It is why human rituals for money have quadrupled what they were pre and in the immediate post-colony. Second, government must consciously de-radicalize money and its effects and flaunting of wealth should attract sanctions. Social studies lessons of pre and post-independence must be exhumed. They were learnt by rote and taught to pupils from creche, example being the Yoruba J. F. Odunjo’s Alawiye series, which taught the values of work, condemned get-rich-quick syndrome and pronounced damnation for indolence. These must become our bible and Quran. Only then can we stop the pernicious harvest of our children in their prime, in the hands of flesh-hunters for money.