Operatives of the Delta Police Command have rescued an abducted victim and arrested a suspect, 23-year-old Kelly Onwuka in connection with the kidnap. The young man was abducted with his Toyota corolla car by kidnappers on February 21 at
Otu-Jeremi community in Ughelli South Local Government Area. Operatives attached to the Otu-Jeremi Division and Counter-Terrorism Unit, Base 5, Warri trailed the hoodlums to Ekrokpe community where they rescued the 37-year-old victim and recovered his car. Exhibits recovered from the arrested suspect included one cut-to-size double-barrel gun, and one live cartridge. Meanwhile, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, who confirmed the incident in a statement, added that one Goodluck Ahirima, 24, and Charles Oyibocha, 24, were also arrested and a stolen tricycle recovered. The suspects were arrested along Eghwarha road, Agbarho, on February 23 following a tip-off that they had snatched a tricycle from its owner the previous day at Agbarho bridge, along Ughelli – Port-Harcourt Expressway. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.. Police rescue kidnap victim, arrest suspects in Delta  Police rescue kidnap victim, arrest suspects in Delta  Police rescue kidnap victim, arrest suspects in Delta  Police rescue kidnap victim, arrest suspects in Delta  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity