Members of the house of representatives on Wednesday expressed support for a bill that seeks to establish Federal College of Nursing and Midwifery, Ayedun in Oke-Ero Local Government Area of Kwara State. The private member bill sponsored by Hon. Tunji Olawuyi (APC-Kwara) was passed and referred to the House Committee on Health Institutions for further legislative action. In his lead debate, Hon. Olawuyi expressed optimism that the College when operational will help in strengthening the primary healthcare system in the country. While stressing the need for reinforced investment in the health sector, the lawmaker observed that the country’s health sector requires adequate manpower especially Nursing and Midwifery. Hon. Olawuyi said the bill was imperative as it would herald the first major federal presence in Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero Federal Constituency of Kwara State and its educational development. He said that the traditional rulers and elders of the constituency had unanimously resolved to donate at least 100 hectares of land for the establishment of the Institution. This according to him will provide enabling environment for the teeming youths across the country to be trained in Nursing and Midwifery. He said that this had become necessary especially at a time when the country is suffering from dearth of health and medical manpower. The lawmaker said the passage of the bill would go a long way not only to stop the brain drain, exodus of medical and health personnel to foreign countries. He added that the bill would help by increasing the country’s life expectancy rate. “It is also worthy to note that the proposed institution when established will also pave way for several aspiring undergraduates to gain admission since most of the existing tertiary institutions are saturated. He added that most Nigerian youths had been deprived of gaining admission into various institutions of their choice especially in nursing and midwifery for lack of sufficient health institutions. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Reps support establishment of school of nursing, midwifery in Kwara  Reps support establishment of school of nursing, midwifery in Kwara  Reps support establishment of school of nursing, midwifery in Kwara  Reps support establishment of school of nursing, midwifery in Kwara