The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has called on the two chambers of the National Assembly to ensure a hundred per cent voting and passage of local government, judiciary and States House Assembly total autonomy from both Federal and State governments’ interference. NLC made this call in Abuja at the first leg of the Nigerian workers’ mobilisation for public advocacy show of force rally at the National Assembly. Addressing the mammoth crowd of workers at the National Assembly gate, NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said the rally will continue today, 1st March, 2022 inside NASS premises, where the leadership of Organised Labour will address both Senate and House of Reps members on the need to for the passage of local government and judiciary autonomy. While he said that NLC will closely monitor the voting to note those who will vote against the autonomy of the governance institutions, Comrade Wabba stated that workers will use their voter cards to ensure that legislators who voted against the progress of Nigeria are voted out in the next general elections. Furthermore, he called on workers across the country to get voter cards and also ensure that every member of their family who is eligible to vote gets theirs. He also noted that voter card is a very strong instrument Nigerian workers must unanimously use to weed out politicians who are propagating policies that worsen the economic and living conditions of Nigerian workers and people, in general, come 2023 elections. “We want overwhelming voting. We don’t even want 99 per cent. We want the members of the National Assembly when they are voting tomorrow and next tomorrow both the House of Rep and the Senate on these issues, we want 100 per cent of their votes to guarantee the independence of the judiciary, to guarantee full autonomy for local governments and also to guarantee full autonomy to our legislature. “This is what will strengthen our democracy. We are going to actually name each person that fails to vote in this light. We will name and shame them.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.