Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir has reassured that his administration will continue to promote peaceful coexistence among people of the state irrespective of religious differences. The governor was speaking when leadership of the North-East Baptist Conference paid him a courtesy visit at the government house on Friday saying that religion is a thing of the heart which should not breed any acrimony. He stressed that having sworn to protect the provisions of the Constitution of the country, he will continue to treat citizens of the state equally devoid of religious sentiments. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Barr Ibrahim Kashim, Bala Mohammed said that he is a man of the people and will always welcome people to the Government House at all times. He however called on religious leaders to always preach peace and unity as well as tolerance among their adherents because according to him, “that is the only way we as a people can appreciate one another”. The Governor then thanked the leadership of the North-East Baptist Conference for finding Bauchi State worthy to host its annual Conference in Session saying that it is a demonstration of the appreciation his administration is doing for the good of the people of the state. Earlier, Conference President of North East Baptist Conference, Rev Musa Likita told the Governor that he decided to host the annual Conference in session in Bauchi in appreciation of the peace reigning in the state. The Conference President added that, “We have followed the trend of events in Bauchi state, we are happy with your disposition to Christians in Bauchi state. You are a leader whose administrative acumen should be emulated by others”. Musa Likita added that the North-East Baptist Conference will always support the good things the administration is doing in appreciation of the peaceful atmosphere in the state. He then reminded the governor of his promise to complete the CAN centre as well as the allocation of land for a new Christian cemetery considering that the present one has been filled. On the presidential aspiration of the governor, the Conference President said that, “We are together with you and praying along with you. If your party gives you the Presidential ticket, we will join your campaign team”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  My administration will continue to promote peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences, Bauchi Gov declares  My administration will continue to promote peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences, Bauchi Gov declares  My administration will continue to promote peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences, Bauchi Gov declares  My administration will continue to promote peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences, Bauchi Gov declares ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity