After two years of the outbreak of novel Coronavirus pandemic otherwise known as COVID-19 in Nigeria in 2020, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has said it has recorded over 250,000 cases, no fewer than 3000 deaths and learnt major lessons in its bid to strengthen the country’s health system to cope with other infectious diseases and future health emergencies. The Director-General of NCDC, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa, in a press release titled: “Two Years of COVID-19 Response: Building On Lessons to Strengthen Nigeria’s Health Security for the Future”, pointed out that prior to COVID-19, the world was preparing for a possible influenza pandemic, yet the arrival of SARS-CoV-2 highlighted inadequacies in global pandemic preparedness. Adetifa further said, given the interconnectedness of the world(now essentially a global village), people are at constant risk of public health emergencies that have the potential to greatly disrupt lives and livelihoods like COVID-19 did. According to him, “This makes it critical to learn from lessons taught by this pandemic to strengthen preparedness and response to other diseases in line with our mandate. “We have continued to face outbreaks of cholera and Lassa fever concurrently with the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic response has recorded the largest political commitment in the history of health system development in Nigeria due to its global relevance and impact on our economy. “This has provided opportunities for prioritising health on the political agenda and attracting the required future investment in health security. We all have the responsibility to encourage and continue to hold authorities accountable to sustain interest and investment in healthcare in general and particularly for health security. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as Nigeria’s national public health institute is mandated to lead on the preparedness, detection, and response to disease outbreaks of public health importance and to mitigate the health impact of public health emergencies/disasters. “In the last five years, several efforts have been made towards improving our health system, as well as increased investment in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the pandemic, the NCDC supported the establishment of infectious disease treatment centres, molecular laboratories, and public health emergency operation centres in all States, and provided equipment required for critical care in hospitals e.g., dialysis machines. “NCDC has also led the training of over 40,000 health workers on infection prevention control, completed the digitalisation of the country’s infectious disease surveillance system, provided support including of vehicles for outbreak investigation across states, and ensured regular supplies of treatment and testing supplies among other activities. Despite this progress, it is essential that these investments in health infrastructure are sustained beyond COVID-19. “Our priority remains to work with relevant government institutions and our partners to learn lessons from the pandemic and build back better. Although it requires significant financial investments to build infrastructure and procure equipment, investment in the strengthening of the capacity of relevant human resources to drive progress towards national health security is vital. “We are grateful to our workforce for their sacrifice and dedication to protecting the health of Nigerians. We also remain grateful to collaborating government institutions, partners across all sectors, civil society organisations, community and religious leaders, media stakeholders, and all Nigerians for working with us in solidarity to fight COVID-19. “Despite the prevailing pandemic fatigue, COVID-19 is still a global reality with the risk of emergence of dangerous variants. Overcoming this pandemic and future disease outbreaks requires national and international collaboration. On a personal level, we can contribute by getting vaccinated and adhering to COVID-19 safety measures. “The NCDC remains committed to working under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health and in close collaboration with the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 to end the pandemic and protect the health of every Nigerian.” Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa COVID-19: Nigeria recorded over 250,000 cases, 3,000 deaths in two years ― NCDC FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari COVID-19: Nigeria recorded over 250,000 cases, 3,000 deaths in two years ― NCDC ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.