The Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum (PDP-GF) is to embark on a peer review exercise and special interrogation of legacy (high impact) projects initiated and executed by PDP Governors in their respective states. Sokoto state will be the first state to be reviewed under the agreed and approved set of criteria on Friday. According to a statement issued by Hon. CID Maduabum, Director-General PDP Governors Forum on Thursday, the exercise will involve the media, independent consultants and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), and social media influencers from across the country. While noting that the review will last a few days, in the first instance, the statement informed that each review exercise will begin with a presentation of identified legacy projects by the states, followed by a site tour of some of the projects, and incisive appraisal of programmes and policy options and outcomes. He said this will be followed with a conference interrogation by the team, of the quality of delivery of the projects, cost management, capacity and relevance of the projects and impact on citizens of the State. The team will also be looking at the project’s multiplier impact for social and economic development in the State. Coordinated by the PDP-GF, the team will visit all the states controlled by the party. The statement explained said the review will be objective, intensive, incisive and will measure value for money spent. It may well represent a first of its kind in the country. The PDP-GF DG added: “The PDP must begin now to collate materials and narratives that will usher it boldly and convincingly into the debates and campaigns for the 2023 General elections based on performance indicators of its Governors, who presently represent a sample of the kind of government to be run by the party in 2023 at the federal level.” Maduabum said PDP Governors have demonstrated an uncommon capacity in projects execution and prudence in the administration of their States over the past six years. “These legacy achievements will be introduced to Nigerians through a peer review campaign and media reporting on the Legacy projects in infrastructure, agriculture, roads, bridges and flyovers, health, education, encapsulated in the human capital development identified and presented by the states for Peer Reviewing.” He further said: “it will be a massive showcase of impact-oriented projects executed by each State, under the exemplary leadership of our Governors.” According to Maduabum “the PDP ruled Nigeria for 16years and is now essentially a party in opposition. But it controls 13 of the 36 states in the Federation. It cannot in any way be a pushover in a contest for hearts and minds ds of Nigerians for power at the federal level in 2023, following the disastrous performance of the APC led Federal Government.” The Director-General assured that the peer review will be presented to Nigerians, “a choice of at least two competing visions and tendencies, the PDP years of performance and the APC years of failure and misrule” because “meaningful choices and opportunities must be presented to the voters to inform their decisions as they go out to vote in 2023.” He said it is important that “the PDP Governors as the governments in opposition need to interrogate and present its policy choices, projects, programmes and achievements in concert and close consultation with the leadership of the PDP for 2023” The DG added that at the end of the review exercise, projects and programmes reviewed will be collated comparatively for presentation to Nigerians. “This is in contrast to APC run States where misrule and misery largely reign supreme,” he declared. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity