I was recently diagnosed with COVID-19 infection. However, two weeks after treatment and testing negative, I am still feeling weak with poor appetite and sleeping pattern. Kindly let me know why this is happening. Arike (by SMS)  What you have is referred to as “long COVID”.  The symptoms range from shortness of breath, poor cognitive dysfunction, fatigue, chest pain, such as trouble speaking, some have described anxiety or depression, muscle aches, fever, loss of smell, loss of taste among others. Even though the condition is still being studied, the duration of the condition can last three months, some have described as long as six months and potentially up to nine months. Any patient or person who develops post COVID-19 condition will need a lot of multi specialist care. This will involve social care workers, psychosocial workers, mental health professionals among others. Currently, there is no specific treatment. However, it is very clear that preventing COVID-19 is the best way to prevent the development of post COVID-19 condition or long COVID. Apart from vaccines which reduce hospitalisation and mortality, public health measures such as mask wearing in the appropriate places, physical distancing, hand-washing, are also extremely important to prevent COVID-19. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity