A private bus rapid transit in Lagos, Primero Transport Service, has restated that it had long resolved its issues with the supplier, Petrocam Trading Nigeria Limited. The company said this while responding to a story titled “Unpaid Debt: Fuel Supplier Asks Court to Halt Lagos BRTOperations,” in a statement issued exclusively to Tribune Online on Monday evening. It said the alleged aggrieved diesel supplier is still supplying diesel for Primero operations across Lagos State weekly as of today. Primero said: “We will like to put the record straight. The matter was from last year and has been resolved by both parties. “The alleged aggrieved diesel supplier, Petrocam Trading Nigeria Limited is still supplying diesel for Primero operations across Lagos State weekly as of today.” It, therefore, urged Nigerian media professionals to understand that it is prejudicial to give details of a matter pending in court to the public. “It is prejudicial to give details of a matter pending in court to the public. “We find it unethical that none of the news outlets deemed it fit to contact Primero to get our side of the story before going to press,” it stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details