The Federal High Court sitting in Awka, Anambra State on Thursday discharged and acquitted one Obinna Obinwa accused of drug dealing and consumption. Justice Nnamdi Dimgba discharged and acquit the suspect for lack of diligent prosecution by the state. National Drug Law Enforcement Agency NDLEA in suit number C/62/2021 charged Obinna Obinwa before Federal High Court two for being in illegal possession of Indian hemp. When his case was called for hearing, NDLEA was unable to present him before the court to defend himself for the second time. Justice Dimgba worried by the agency’s inability to produce the suspect before the court for two consecutive time decided to discharge and acquit the suspect for diligent prosecution. Justice Dimgba in his ruling said that NDLEA and correctional centre are agents of the federal government and they should be able to harmonise and produce the suspect before the court any day he is required. According to him, since the NDLEA could produce him before the court for the second time to defend himself, even when he was ready to face charges, he should be allowed to go home. He ordered the prison authority to immediately release him and allow him to go home since NDLEA has no case against him. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Court discharges  Court discharges Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Court discharges  Court discharges ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity