A charity arm under the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), The Light Up Correctional Facilities (LUCF), has put smiles on the faces of inmates as well as won hundreds of souls at the correctional centres in Bayelsa, Delta and Ogun states. Tribune Church News gathered that the charity arm respectively visited the correctional centres to cater for the inmates materially and spiritually as they visit prisons in different states of Nigeria. According to the church the aim is to win the entire world for Christ and for the gospel to reach every nook and cranny of the earth.  The outreach was fruitful as good numbers of inmates were converted. LUCF did not only preach the gospel, but also presented foods items, including plantain, garri, palm oil and ram to prison to the officials of the correctional centres respectively. The give back initiative tagged, “The Reach- for –Christ” had 43 souls won to Christ at Ijebu Ode prison, 43 persons also gave their lives to Christ at Sagamu correctional centre. The church also had about 42 converts at Ibara correctional centre. 121 converts were also recorded at Borstal Home and Ibara, Abeokuta prison, Ogun State.s Ogwashi Uku correctional centre and Sapele prison were also visited in Delta State, while the correctional centre in Yenagoa, Bayelsa will benefit from the give back programme February 10. In his remarks, the representative of the official of the Ijebu Ode correctional centre, Mr D. A. Shuaib, expressed his gratitude on the guesture, just as he commended the General Overseer of the church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on his comparison on inmates and underprivileged in Nigeria. “This assistance will no doubt go a long way. This is the best way to give back to humanity and RCCG has been on this for a very long time. We say a big thank you to Daddy GO and the entire team,” he added.  MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details