The nine-man Advisory Intervention Committee on Culture and Tourism inaugurated by the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, to develop the first-ever Holiday Village in Africa to be cited in Lokoja has presented an eight-point agenda on how to actualise their mandate. Speaking at a recent meeting, the Chairman of the  Kogi State Advisory Intervention Committee, Chief Olusegun Runsewe, stated that the committee had set the ball rolling by walking the talk of their mandate to develop the first-ever Holiday Village in Africa as they met and ratified an 8-point agenda. According to Runsewe, the agenda includes visits to all historical and heritage sites in Kogi State, hosting the very important national stakeholders’ meeting in the state, trips to farm and national sites, interface with brand names in the country, setting up of media players, building a brand identity for the holiday village, develop feedback mechanism with the kogi State government house and host physical meeting when necessary. Runsewe thanked Governor Yahaya Bello for his vision in setting up this Kogi State Advisory Intervention Committee on Culture and Tourism. He added that if Governor Bello is able to host this much talked about national industry-stakeholders’ meeting this year in Kogi State, it will be the first state in the history of Nigeria to do such. The NCAC boss commended Governor Bello for the bold step which he noted that it will definitely translate to a big avenue to engage the youths of today and also future generation. Runsewe concluded that his committee would send a formal and strategic report to the governor to enable the committee practically approach all the issues. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Kogi to build first  Kogi to build first Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Kogi to build first  Kogi to build first MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details