Nigeria – the top country in the world in regards to having the most children out of school. The government’s data points out to the number of 10.5 million children being without education. This has been written off as being due to nomadic communities, the Boko Haram Islamist insurgency, the cultural factors. Yet, according to critics the problem arises because of insufficient funding. No matter whether you are interested in googling for interpretive essay example, the arousal of new genres in fiction, the debt problem in the USA, or the issues in Nigeria’s educational system, there are plenty of things to be learned online. In this article we’d see some of the BBC’s data on the crisis in Nigeria. Let’s go into depth in that and, afterwards, into how to fix those problems. BBC points towards the regional differences between the North and the South. The most of the children out of school are In the North. This is somewhat due to the nomadic style of life in the population here. Another factor is the banditry that surges that part of the country. The North part even has occurrences where bandits kidnap students and teachers from school. Parents here also believe that education is going to lead their kids away from the way of Islam. So, they send them not to western-type schools but into Quranic schools. In the South there is free education, so there are more kids in school. Still, there are not enough teachers. There aren’t enough resources, as well. We, here, may be able to order essay cheap, but there we don’t have the option to achieve something more than cheap education. Even classrooms are scarce and sometimes hundred and more students are in the same classroom. Again, we see the regional differences here. The North has no schools and kids need to tackle long distances to see a classroom. In the South, though, there is a bad infrastructure. There aren’t enough classrooms, there are not enough teacher, learning equipment is lacking. Most of the children that are out of school are in the North. This is partially due to poverty. Even those who want to send their kids to school cannot afford it. More emphasis is, of course, put on feeding the kids. There are simply not enough more to spend on textbooks, uniforms, etc. Money isn’t the solution to everything. But lack of money can damage a lot of things. The educational system in Nigeria shows us that. The government doesn’t fund the school system enough and, due to that, one cannot ensure enough access to education and a quality education, too. Partially this problem arises due to corruption and funds stealing. When something is wrong, there are many ways to fix it. But to start off, you’d need to go back to the basis. It’s hard to say, though, where is the basis here. Maybe one needs to focus on developing a more balanced community in terms of equal opportunities. As long as the North is experiencing these hardships, parents there would be unwilling or unable to send their children to school. As long as the banditry continues, there may be plenty of crimes done towards students, teachers, and schools. This is certainly something that needs to be worked upon. Of course, there needs to be a better infrastructure. Considering the lack of schools in the North, we cannot expect children to travel such enormous distances – at least, not plenty of them. So, we’d need more schools in this region. But we’d also need a more well-developed infrastructure in the South. More resources, too. Such include teachers for if we have no teachers there can be no schooling, either. Thus, we’d have to have a better society in terms of equal means and a better infrastructure coupled with more teachers. How to achieve that? It’s quite hard to say. For there can be many ways to get there. What seems to be a vicious cycle is the fact that for those things to get better we’d also need better education. So, we can perfectly see how hard it can be. There is one other thing, though. As long as there is insufficient funding, there can be no development. So, that is one more way to fix that – giving off more funds for education. Of course, this will also may mean international funding and privatization of schools so that they can be managed with bigger budgets, as it’s been already suggested. Sure, there are probably tons of other actions that the society and the government can take on. There is no way to write everything down in a single article. So, we touched upon the biggest issues and what course of action can be though of in respect to them. Nigeria’s educational system is pretty far, far away from perfect. In fact, it’s undergoing a crisis that can shape the future of the country. After all, the foundations on which we build something become either the strongest or the weakest link in the chain. So, we need to make sure that we are building strong foundations. This can be done via education and a quality one, moreover. We need to put kids in school and actually teach them something. We need to make sure the environment is safe for them. Sure, there isn’t a single course of action that can lead us to the appropriate part of our journey. We just know what is the end goal that we need to strive to reach – quality education for every child. This is something that we, as a society, should put into our priorities. The future lies in the hands of those who are still kids. We should make sure that we set them up on the right path to a successful future. That is done through quality education – a right for every child. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity