Former representative of Rivers South-East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Abe, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the electoral law, describing it as a process of rewriting history. In a statement signed by his spokesperson, Parry Saroh Benson, Abe said the future of Nigeria is now in the hands of the Nigerian people. He added that the citizens have for long been looking forward to a process that would enable their voice to be heard and that is what the President has done. “I want to thank the President for granting assent to the Electoral Act. He has kept to his word. The future of our country is now in the hands of the Nigerian people,” Abe said He added: “Our democracy is evolving and the citizens are looking for a cleaner process that will enable their voice to be heard. I think that is what is driving the process. “Mr President himself has been a serial victim of faulty electoral processes and he has promised Nigerians that he will leave behind a better electoral process: this, he has done with his assent to the electoral act. “I also want to thank all members of the National Assembly who worked tirelessly to make this legacy legislation a reality. “Our democracy is not yet perfect; there is still a lot of work to be done particularly within the political sphere, where major actors continue to conduct themselves with utter disdain for norms of democracy. “The Nigerian people should all be energized by this victory, it is now clear that if we desire it and we work towards it, the Nigeria of our dream is possible in our lifetime. To God be the glory.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity