Hours after Chairman, Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Isaac Omodewu, inaugurated members of the state executive council of the party, ‘outgoing’ caretaker Chairman of the Oyo APC has released a list of ‘harmonised’ state and local government excos of the party. According to Oke, in a statement, on Monday, the harmonised list of State Executive Committee members was what was endorsed and submitted by zonal leaders at the residence of the former governor, late Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala. He explained that the decision to release the list was to silence “unfounded rumours and misrepresentation of facts making the rounds over the management of the lists generated by various stakeholders at Ward and Local Government levels.” In addition, Oke held that the names were generated from the consensus arrangement carried out in all the local government areas and in conformity with the directives on consensus option as the basis for the nomination of executive council members. He maintained that the harmonised lists received from stakeholders were submitted to various congress committees that came to the state and that it was then established that no other list was submitted by any other person or group. To prevent degeneration of the impasse over the party excos in the state, Oke admonished the national leadership of the party to consider treating Oyo APC issue the same way as those of Kano and Sokoto states where more time have been devoted to resolving the lingering intra-party crisis. This, he noted, is crucial for true and genuine reconciliation to take place. Oke said, “In all honesty, my main goal is to enjoy my private life after serving the progressive family for more than six decades and this implies that I am not going to remain in the saddle as the party chairman beyond this moment for any reason. “However, I owe an average member of the party the duty of leaving behind a legacy one can be proud of. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We maintain that all we submitted to various congress committees that came to the state were the lists received from relevant stakeholders at that time and the fact was established that no other list was submitted by any other person or group. “To set the record straight, the names of party chairmen generated from the consensus arrangement carried out in all the local government areas are; Gbade Adeyemi (Afijio), Adelowo Ademola (Atiba), Yunusa Kareem (Oyo East), Michael Awolola (Oyo West), Adekunle Ademola (Ibarapa Central), Olusegun Ojediran (Ibarapa East), Adetunji Omolewu (Ibarapa North), Kamardeen Salau (Ogbomoso South), Raimi Aremu (Ogbomoso North), Ayuba Lukman (Oriire), Kazeem Alao (Ogo-Oluwa), Isaac Aremu (Surulere), Emmanuel Akinbode (Akinyele), Ibrahim Animasaun-Agbedo (Egbeda), Adesina Adeagbo (Ona-Ara), Waheed Akinleye (Oluyole), Akeeb Alarape (Ido), Fatai Awoyoola (Lagelu), Taofeek Olayiwola (Ibadan North), Jelili Asukuna (Ibadan North West), Wahab Adebisi (Ibadan North East), Jelili Asukuna (Ibadan North West), Muyiwa Adebiyi (Ibadan South East), Sunday Babalola (Ibadan South West), Anthony Ogunleke (Iseyin), Moshood Oluokun (Iwajowa), Jacob Siyanbade (Kajola), Sikirullahi Osuolale (Itesiwaju), Sulaimon Aderogba (Oorelope), Yekinni Awoyake (Irepo), Aremu Oluwasegun William (Olorunsogo), Abel Okeyoyin (Atisbo), Afolabi Fatokun (Saki East) and Idris Ogundiya (Saki West). “In the same vein, the harmonised list of State Executive Committee members endorsed and submitted by Zonal leaders at the residence of the former governor, late Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, are; Abu Gbadamosi (State Chairman), Moshood Abas (Deputy Chairman), Tajudeen Olanite (State Secretary), Omolola Odekunbi (Sate Woman Leader), Richard Oluseyi (State Youth Leader), Alaba Bolarinwa (Assistant Secretary), Taiwo Moteleola (Welfare Secretary), Lekan Busari (Treasurer), Wasiu Sadare (Publicity Secretary), Lukman Anwo (Auditor), Kamaldeen Nageri (Financial Secretary), Mathew Adeyemo (Organising Secretary), Wahab Alade (Legal Adviser), Dele Ladapo (Leader, Special Persons), Olalekan Adeyemo (Oyo Central Senatorial Leader), Tunde Oloyede (Oyo North Senatorial Leader) and Najimudeen Abass (Oyo South Senatorial Leader). “Others include; Rafiu Oke (Deputy Youth Leader), Sakirat Balogun (Oyo South Senatorial Woman Leader), Akeem Abimbola (Ex-Officio 2), Rasheed Ogunbiyi (Senatorial Youth Leader, Oyo South), Oye Akinrinade (Asst. Legal Adviser), Olalekan Esho (Ex-Officio 1), Muritala Ahmed (Asst. Organising Secretary), Mukaila Shittu (Asst. Publicity Secretary), Adepoju Aderemi (Asst. Auditor), Beatrice Odunola (Senatorial Woman Leader, Oyo Central), John Oyetunji (Ex-Officio 4), Julius Adegbola (Asst. Financial Secretary), Akin Akinwale (Senatorial Youth Leader, Oyo Central), Sikiru Adedeji (Senatorial Youth Leader, Oyo North), Julius Adegbola (Asst. Financial Secretary), Muyiwa Adeniran (Asst. Welfare Secretary), Rihanat Salam (Senatorial Woman Leader, Oyo North), Dauda Saliu Ajana (Ex-Officio 1), Mariam Azeez (Deputy State Woman Leader) and Assistant Treasurer (nomination yet to be made). “Going forward, it is necessary for us to appeal to the national leadership of the party to consider treating the Oyo APC issue the same way with those of Kano and Sokoto states where more time have been devoted to resolving the lingering intra-party crisis for true and genuine reconciliation to take place. Also, I use this opportunity to urge members to remain calm and optimistic as we all need ourselves and as a result of this, every leader and member of Oyo APC must eschew divisive tendencies. We must avoid confrontation and violence because we all remain members of the same family and our collective goal should be victory in 2023.” Pending the resolution of the quagmire, he urged party members to avoid confrontation, violence, divisive tendencies but remain focused on victory at the 2023 poll. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details