Osun State Government at the weekend announced that the newly constructed Olaiya flyover in Osogbo, the state capital, will be opened to traffic on Monday. The State Commissioner for Works, Remi Omowaiye, made this known in a statement In Osogbo. According to the statement, “The State Government of Osun wishes to announce the opening of the newly completed Iconic Flyover, Olaiya, Osogbo for test-running by the General Public after due certification for safe ride by the external Consultant (Advanced Engineering Consultant, Lagos), while the “First Ride” shall be performed by Mr Governor at 12.00 noon. “The date for the official commissioning shall be announced in due course. “The Government equally wishes to use this medium to appreciate all the good citizens of the State for the perseverance and endurance during the construction period.” The statement, however, admonished the citizens to exercise caution and observe all traffic rules while plying the road.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Osun to open constructed Olaiya flyover in Osogbo on Monday ― Works commissioner ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity