Guaranty Trust Holding Company plc (GTCO Plc) has announced the completion of the acquisition of 100 per cent shares in Investment One Pensions Managers Limited. In a notice to the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) and the investing public on Monday, the Holding Company noted that following the completion of the Acquisition, the new subsidiary would function primarily as a Pension Fund Administrator to the general public. Commenting on the completion of the acquisition, Mr Segun Agbaje, Group Chief Executive Officer of GTCO said: “This acquisition is in line with the evolution of the Guaranty Trust brand in becoming a fully-fledged financial services company, with the capabilities and drive to deliver end-to-end financial services to every African and African business. With over 30 years of being a trusted banker to millions of Nigerians and expertise in capital allocation to generate the highest yields for our customers and shareholders; the Pension Fund business is a natural fit for the Guaranty Trust brand. “Also, our bias for the highest standards in corporate governance will ensure transparency in how we manage the funds under our management, which will ultimately make us the preferred Pension Fund Administrator, not only in the Nigeria market but also in Africa”. He further stated that “Whilst evolving as an organization, we remain committed to our founding values of excellence, hard work and integrity, as we continue to build a proudly African and Truly International brand for millions of people in and outside of Africa.” All regulatory approvals have been obtained for the Acquisition and commencement of operations of the Pension Manager Company. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details