Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, has described the removal of State Police by the National Assembly, from the constitutional Amendment procedure, as a disservice to the nation, saying the prolonged spate of insecurity in the country made the demand for State Police a necessity. Adams gave this reaction on Monday in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Mr Kehinde Aderemi, saying he had a strong feeling from the beginning that the lawmakers would not come out with anything that reflected the overall interest of the people. The Yoruba generalissimo noted with dismay, the alleged selfishness of the Senate, declaring that not much could be achieved with the ongoing constitutional amendment, which he said was mired in unnecessary politicking. According to Iba Adams, what the lawmakers did with the amendment amounted to an open display of politics and selfishness, saying Nigerians are always at the receiving end of such attitude, even as he maintained that the State Police if put in place could have helped in addressing the pressing security challenges facing the country daily. Adams declared that the constitutional Amendment process had exposed the lawmakers, saying they were there at the two chambers to seek amendments to issues that were personal to them, such as “immunity, life pension and other paraphernalia of the offices, forgetting that they are at the National Assembly to seek the well- being of the people or the constituency they represent.” “Ordinarily, I knew from the beginning that nothing tangible and nothing worthwhile will come out of the constitutional amendment process that is shrouded in bias and unnecessary politicking. “With the removal of State Police from the constitutional Amendment procedure, it is obvious that none of the National Assembly members is a worthy representative of the people. It is an open display of politics and selfishness, and Nigerians are always at the receiving end. “The Red Chamber didn’t consider the need for a State Police, which could have helped in addressing the pressing security challenges we face daily as a nation. “Their plan was to hide under the cover of the law to improve their political leverage and boost their interests and nothing more. “The security situation is a major challenge in the country and the Senate decided to look the other way, by removing State Police from the constitutional amendment process,” the Yoruba generalissimo said. Speaking further, Iba Adams posited that the implication of this huge lacuna in the constitutional Amendment process was that the demand for State Police or regional police was long overdue given the various security deficit in the country. “Security is a major issue across the country. However, the demand for State Police is one of the yearnings of Nigerians that cut across ethnic nationalities, and without it, the constitutional Amendment process is purely an exercise in futility, and the National Assembly would not be able to achieve its desired objectives, except for some politicians that are doing everything within their powers to protect their political interests,” Adams said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.