The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Department of Mass Education has donated food items and learning materials to three Internally Displaced Persons’ camp in the territory. During the donation through a committee constituted on out of school children by the Department of Mass Education, Director Hajia Titilayo Alayande said the initiative was the continuation of its interventions programme for the IDPs. In a statement made available to pressmen in Abuja, the Deputy Director of Information Education Secretariat, Kabir Musa, the director stated that the intervention is just one part of the Department mandate which is very key in sustaining the learner’s interest in the provision of affordable and accessible education for all. She explained that the Committee’s task is among others is to ensure the out-of-school-children and Internally Displaced Children have Education and Skill development, livelihood counselling and gender-based issues. The Director noted that the FCT Administration is greatly concern and have taken practical measures to intervene by putting in place the Committee to seek ways of catering for these categories of people while motivating them towards achieving holistic Education for all. According to her, the Life Builders Education Initiative, a Non-Governmental Organisation was discovered when she assumed office and they have visited, monitored and involved them in their various activities such as International Literacy Day and Children’s Day Celebration among other activities. She said, the NGO story is becoming a success stories and commended the NGO for their humanity efforts, adding that they still need support from other organisations on feeding and start off fund after acquiring skills. Alayande further stated that the NGO is complementing Government efforts and assuring them of FCT Administration concern in this regards, appreciating leaders of the FCT Administration for their commitment to make education affordable and accessible. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. FCTA donates food items, learning materials to IDPs ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity