The Alhaji Rasaq Salinsile led faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State on Monday said that, the result of last Saturday’s governorship primary elections as sham, kand charade. Salinsile in a statement made available after the factional stakeholders meeting held at Oranmiyan House, Osogbo, however, rejected its outcome which he said was fraught with fraud and manipulation. “We are therefore convinced that justice has not been served and therefore rejects the result and will be approaching the Appeal Committee to be set up by the National Secretariat.” The factional chairman remarked that, “We put on record the fact that many people were disenfranchised, as APC members who trooped to the election centres with their membership slips, could not find their names on the register. “Contrary to the guidelines, accreditation did not take place in many election centres while result sheets were unavailable. “The appointees of Governor Gboyega Oyetola were the appointed electoral officers and supervisors of the exercise. “We note that there were overvoting in some areas while the much talked about the presence of Independent National Electoral Commission INEC was far-fetched. “Many members who were not part of Governor Oyetola’s IleriOluwa group were chased away from the election centres by thugs and hoodlums hired by government agents. “Prior to the Saturday’s high-level display of impunity called election, we have had to call on Governor Oyetola to resign from membership of the National Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (NCECPC) as it runs against morality and the law. “That position was used by Governor Oyetola to get so many things manipulated in the process leading to conduct of the primary, including the furtive change of date of the exercise “We put it on record the fact that there were so many anomalies, all of which incidentally, we have made known before Saturday’s event. “We put on record that as at the day of the election, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, our governorship aspirant, was not allowed to have access to the membership register by which the exercise took place. “By this, he was denied knowledge of how many members the party had as at the day of the election which is contrary to morality and the law. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects