Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State has contended that the only legacy left for President Muhammadu Buhari is to conduct a free, fair and credible election in 2023. He spoke in an interview with journalists shortly after meeting with former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi in Kaduna on Thursday. According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari himself despite all the failures that we are seeing in this administration, the only legacy that is left for him is to ensure he conducts free, fair and credible elections. In the same way, as President Goodluck Jonathan did ensure and handed over to him in 2015,” he added. The Sokoto state governor also spoke on INEC chairman, “As I said it before, the head of the electoral umpire, INEC, Prof Mahmood has only one option. That option is to leave a lasting legacy. From my knowledge, he is from very good family background.” “So he needs to actually make sure that he did not soil his family history and his own personal history by ensuring he conduct a free and fair election.” Tambuwal who is in Kaduna with former governor of Sokoto, Attahiru Bafarawa, Former Minister Muktari Shagari, lawmakers, retired Army officers and PDP chieftains charged members to be united. “That is becoming our national anthem. Unity! Unity!! Unity!!! all the way. It’s only when we are united that we can have a very strong force,” he declared. The former Governor of Kaduna, Senator Ahmad Mohammed Makarfi had in his remarks had admonished the PDP stalwarts and other party members to unite and embrace one another. “If we unite and accommodate each other, we will have cause to smile,” Makarfi said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details