The House of Representatives has concluded plans to ensure that all public and private companies operating in the country comply with extant safety regulations and standards in their respective operational facilities. Recall that the Committee was inaugurated by the Speaker, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila on Thursday, March 25, 2021, with a view to ensuring effective legislative oversight on matters relating to Safety Standards and Regulations in our public and private institutions in line with the 9th House of Representatives Legislative Agenda. To this end, the House Committee on Safety Standards and Regulations, chaired by Hon. Ibrahim Hamza will on Monday, February 7, 2022 flag-off a 4-day on-the-spot assessment of some companies’ operating locations within Port Harcourt, River State, such as manufacturing, oil and gas companies, among others. The oversight visit is coming barely six days after Shebah Exploration & Production Company Limited announced that its offshore facility (FPSO) located in Trinity Spirit at the Ukpokiti Terminal at Escravos (Ugborodo), Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State, was engulfed by fire. Out of the 10 crew members who were on board of the facility that went into flames, one person has been confirmed dead and three others rescued alive, five days after the explosion. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The facility, which serves as the primary production facility for Oil Mining Lease 108 located offshore in the western Niger Delta, has a processing capacity of 22,000 barrels per day and a storage capacity of 2 million barrels. The Committee is also expected to beam its searchlight into the report on the 11-day gas leak from the Conoil Producing Limited facility which occurred on October 31st, 2021 and led to a series of protests and unrest in Sangana in the Brass Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. According to the media report, no fewer than 18 persons were declared missing following the ugly incident which occurred in one of the private operating Floating Platform Storage Offloading belonging to Conoco. It was also gathered that gas oozing from the gas explosion has continued to spread to neighbouring communities in Brass, Nembe and Southern Ijaw Local Government Areas. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Reps flag-off oversight visits to fertiliser, oil, gas companies, others FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari Reps flag-off oversight visits to fertiliser, oil, gas companies, others MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details