The Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, Professor Timothy Adebayo, has congratulated the Rt. Rev. Professor Dapo Asaju, on his translation as the Bishop of the Anglican Diocese of Ilesa. Professor Asaju was, until October 1, 2020, the Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo.​ ​He handed over to Prof Adebayo on the expiration of his tenure. In a statement, Prof Adebayo expressed gratitude to God that his immediate past predecessor was made the Bishop of Ilesa, stating that the feat is well deserved and merited, given the Rt Rev Prof Asaju’s virtues as a frontline Church Father, an astute administrator and a distinguished Theologian of global recognition. Prof Adebayo described Asaju’s election as merit-driven, noting that the new Bishop of Ilesha has served the Church of Nigeria(Anglican Communion) diligently in many capacities. He mentioned that Bishop Asaju, who has been serving as the Bishop Theologian of the Church of Nigeria, had served in the past as the Rector of the Crowther Graduate Theological Seminary, Abeokuta and the Vice-Chancellor, Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo. In Prof Adebayo’s words: “​T​he Rt Rev Professor Dapo Asaju would bring his wealth of experience to bear on his new assignment because he has always shown tremendous zeal in evangelism. ”​The Diocese of Ilesa would experience tremendous development, I am hopeful that he would embrace the new assignment with the zest and excellence for which he is known.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity