Lafarge Africa Plc has announced the launch of the Lafarge Driving Institute in its Ewekoro plant in Ogun State, South-West Nigeria. The Lafarge Driving Institute in the South-West is the second of-its-kind created by the building solutions company following the commissioning of the first driving institute in the South East in 2017. The company has continued to provide drivers who have enrolled in the institute with industry-leading training programs tailored to the needs of Nigerian heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) such as trucks, trailers and articulated vehicles drivers. Speaking at the launch of the event, Country CEO of Lafarge Africa Plc., Mr Khaled El Dokani, stressed Lafarge’s commitment to improving health and safety within its operations and ultimately in its wider community. “At Lafarge, we recognize that we have a job to do in improving road safety and we are committed to investing in safety innovation, both within our organisation and along our supply chain. We see safety as key to creating sustainable and profitable operations – boosting productivity and increasing operational efficiencies and business performance in a tangible way.” According to El Dokani, the continuing number of deaths and serious injuries on our roads demands concrete mitigation action. We must institute appropriate measures to improve road safety. He further said: “One major way to reduce road-related incidents and achieve our goal is to raise the standard of driver training in our operation and ensure drivers think about safety first and always while on the road. Embedding a strong culture of road safety at the heart of HVG drivers is paramount. This requires the right training and coaching to understand the risks involved in performing their task, shape their behaviours and to develop safety processes.” “As an organisation, our ambitions remain the same as they did when the first Lafarge Driving Institute was established in 2017: efficient, sustainable and safe road transport. There is no denying the fact that we’ve had a good run these past few years. With the opening of this new centre, we are now extending the same amazing opportunity to more people by bringing it to the southwest.” In the same vein, the Chief Finance Officer/Supply Chain Director of Lafarge, Mr Lolu Akinyemi, disclosed that the new driving institute is proof of the organisation’s commitment to propelling socio-economic growth and investment in the country. “With this new facility, Lafarge is taking critical steps in implementing its training programme and investing in developing its drivers while embedding the ideal culture within its driver community.” The Project Manager, LDI and Country Logistics Safety Manager, Bolaji Anani explained that the goal of the organisation is not for graduates from the institute to only deliver its products safely and in good conditions but that they serve as role models for safe driving to fellow truck drivers and other drivers on Nigerian roads. The Managing Director, Automated Integrated Services Limited (IASL), Mrs Adeniun Taiwo commended the company for its continuous effort into partnering with them, as the programme will enhance professionalism amongst drivers of Heavy Goods Vehicles (HGV) in the society. Speaking on the positive effect of Lafarge Africa’s operations on its host communities, the Assistant Corps Commander (ACC), Itori Unit, Ewekoro, Caleb S. Yerima., commended the company for highly impactful interventions that continue to cater for the needs of host communities and also their zeal towards gender equality. He also commended Lafarge for establishing the Driving Institute in Ewekoro as it has contributed to the state government’s initiative at empowering the people through skills acquisition. Chairman, Ewekoro Community Relations Committee (CRC), Chief Dotun Oderinde, who spoke on behalf of the 12 Ewekoro host communities, described the project as essential life support for the people of Ewekoro, while also reiterating that the driving institute will give room for more qualified truck drivers. He lauded the cement company’s management for promoting community development, especially its palliative measures and providing jobs for the people. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details