Anambra State government, working in partnership with an education consultancy firm, Integral Development Konsult (IDK) has concluded an arrangement with Google to train teachers on digital learning. Chief Executive Officer of IDK, Mrs Chinwe Nweke disclosed this in a joint press conference with the state commissioner for Basic Education, Professor Kate Omenugha, on Wednesday, in Awka. Nweke said the state government, partnering with IDK has invited the education department of Google, to speak in an education digitalization summit, which would be held later this month. She said the aim of the summit was to enhance the skills of teachers in digital learning while listing other leading companies in the Information Communication Technology world, who would also be speaking at the summit to include; Dell, HP, Zinox, Coscharis and others. “We are looking for a way we can use technology to bridge the digital gap. We are introducing ICT into basic education pedagogy, and we are looking at how we can use technology to change learning and affect the students’ lives. “Anambra is very serious with the digitalisation of learning, and we are inviting a panel of ICT companies to look into our sub-topics, which will be dealing with the affordability of gadgets, internet networks in far-flung places in Anambra and solar energy as a source of power for these gadgets. “We have a lot of leading companies we have invited, to lead discussions in the various sub-topics. We are hoping that at the end of discussions, we will come up with a blueprint that will guide the Anambra State government to transform, or cause rapid transformation of learning.” She noted that the summit will herald the launch of a one-student-one-laptop campaign, which will be geared towards getting well to do individuals in the state to make donations that will help procure laptops for students in the state. Speaking also the commissioner for Basic Education, Prof Kate Omenugha stated that the Anambra government has been at the forefront of ensuring digitalization of learning, and was able to show its dominance in the area, during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details