Chief Francis Aziude, one of the three men that were abducted by gunmen last Sunday at Isingwu area of Enugu State has been found dead. This is just as two other persons kidnapped alongside him regained their freedom. The kidnap victims are of the families of Aziude and Onyia families of Isingwu Imeama and Amaeta villages respectively. The remains of Aziude, an estate mogul in Enugu State was later discovered in his abandoned SUV at Ogbaku, along the Enugu Portharcourt expressway on Tuesday. His body has since been deposited in a local mortuary. The deceased is the father of the bride who was having problems with her spouse from the Onyia family. The abductors had stormed the family meeting where Aziudes had hosted their Onyia in-laws in a discussion on some issues that came up last December between their daughter and her husband. The invading gang invaded and ordered the gathered kinsmen to lie on the ground while they tied up the trio of Chief Aziude, his elder brother, Arch Alphonsus and their brother-in-law, Mr Eric Onyia. They took them away in the vehicle belonging to Aziude. Arch Aziude was reportedly released later that Sunday while Chief Aziude and Mr Eric remained in the custody. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details