Lagos State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will on Sunday finally hold its state Congress, which was botched last year October due to some disagreements over delegates list. The National Working Committee (NWC) of the party made this known in a statement issued and signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, a copy of which was made available to newsmen in Lagos, even as it announced an 11- member Electoral Committee headed by Bayelsa State governor, Sen. Diri Douye. Other members of the committee, according to the statement are former Osun State deputy governor, Erelu Olusola Obada, Maj-Gen. Sarkin Yaki Bello (rtd), Hon. Awwal Tukur, Chief Peter Atofarati, Hon. Peter Orji, Hon. Gabriel Onyeweife, who will as secretary. Tribune Online learnt that the exercise will now hold at the Police College, Ikeja, unlike the last botched Congress which took place at the Tarawa Balewa Square. A chieftain of the party, Chief Abayomi Kuye, who spoke on the matter with newsmen, also confirmed that the State Congress will be holding on Sunday, saying this followed agreement reached on harmonization and consensus to produce the next exco of the party in the state. According to Kuye, who is a former member, South-West Caretaker Committee of PDP, Oyo State governor, Engnr. Seyi Makinde, who is also the PDP leader in the zone met with the Caretaker Committee of the party as well as five leaders of the party in Lagos, including Chief Olabode George, Chief (Mrs) Aduke Maina, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu, among others, saying the meeting which took place about two weeks ago started from 9 pm and ended around 4 am. He said it was at the meeting that agreement on how key offices in the party, namely chairmanship, secretaryship, woman leader, youth leader and the publicity secretary would be distributed among the party stakeholders were reached. “So as we speak, Governor Seyi Makinde is the leader of the party, he came and met with these five leaders till the wee hour of the day, from 9 pm till 4am, that was two weeks ago. “So they now decided and they took the offices of the chairman, five principal officers so to say, the offices of the chairman, the secretary, the woman leader, the youth leader and the publicity secretary. So that has been decided by Governor Makinde and the leaders of the party in the state. So they would be microzoned into senatorial districts and then on the consensus basis,” he said. It would be recalled that the party had earlier scheduled the exercise for last Wednesday but had to cancel it without giving any reasons for the cancellation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity