The House of Representatives on Wednesday passed for second reading a bill seeking to amend the National Health Act, to provide sanction of N500 million or 7 years imprisonment for public officials who travel abroad for medical care at public expense. The bill is sponsored by Hon. Sergius Ogun (PDP-Edo) titled, “Bill for an Act to Amend the National Health Act, 2014; and for Related Matters (HB. 1611). The Edo lawmaker stated that the objective of the bill was to amend the Principal Act so as to make provision for sanctions against any public officer who violates the provisions of the Act, especially Section 46 of the Act, which provides that; “Without prejudice to the right of any Nigerian to seek medical check-up, investigation or treatment anywhere within and outside Nigeria, no public officer of the government of the federation or any part thereof shall be sponsored for medical check-up, investigation or treatment abroad at public expense except in exceptional cases on the recommendation and referral by the medical board and which recommendation and referral shall be duly approved by the Minister or Commissioner of Health of the state as the case may be.” He explained the bill was borne out of a desire to discourage medical treatment abroad at the detriment of the country’s indigenous health institutions and the need to revamp the poor state of the health care sector in Nigeria among other things. He added that the bill when it becomes law will reduce the export of medical doctors abroad, curtail excessive medical trips of public officers abroad and direct their attention to fixing the poor state of the country’s health sector. He also said the Bill will reduce cash flight abroad and redirect the same to the development of the economy. According to him, “In his article titled ‘Capital loss and corruption: The Example of Nigeria’, in Punch Newspapers of Tuesday 30th June 2009, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu noted that a former Governor in Nigeria, acquired four properties in London valued at ten million pounds, had a property in Cape Town valued at $1.2 million, was also found with cash of one million pounds in London, amongst others. All of this cash that flies abroad in the disguise of one medical trip or the other will be retained here in our country and be used to develop our nation. “Clause 2(2) of the Bill provides as follows: Any public officer of the government of the federation or any part thereof who violates the provision of sub-section (1) above shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000,000 (five hundred million naira) or to an imprisonment term of seven years, or both.” Contributing in support, the Deputy Minority Leader, Hon. Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu) said the bill falls with regard to prudence, putting into effect an Act of parliament, and expectation of a patriot and a parliamentarian. According to him, the capital flight experienced in the country with the way and manner people use various excuses to go overseas, there wouldn’t be any attention paid to health institutions. On his part, Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf (PDP, Kogi) said, “What the sponsor seeks is an amendment to an existing act, that there’s a gap which doesn’t proffer punishment for those who flout an existing act. So we should look at the amendment on this merit. The essence of a parliament is to deliberate every time, and fill the shortcomings in our laws.” When put to a voice vote by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Idris Wase got the support of the majority of the lawmakers and was passed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Reps pass for second  Reps pass for second Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Reps pass for second  Reps pass for second MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details