Barrister Okey Anyikwa one of the Counsels to the former Governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha has described the interim forfeiture order obtained by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on one of the properties belonging to his client as a witch-hunt. Barrister Anyikwa maintained that the said property was acquired in 2007 before Okorocha became governor of Imo State in 2011. The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on Thursday, gave EFCC, a go-ahead to seize a property in Abuja that belongs to the former Governor after the anti-graft agency said that its investigation revealed that sometime in 2018, Abtisal Global Ltd and Archivisual Solution Ltd, companies in which Okorocha is believed to have interest, received N222 million from the Imo State Government Treasury to develop and improve on the said property. EFCC told the court that it reasonably suspected that the property was part of proceeds of unlawful activities of the erstwhile governor. But in his reaction to the Court Order, Barrister Anyikwa explained that the property was acquired in 2007 by Etha Venture, a company with limited liability. He was of the opinion that the plot by the EFCC to seize a property worth over N15 billion because of N220 million claimed to have been taken from Imo State treasury to renovate the building is ridiculous. “He learnt that the EFCC went to confiscate a property belonging to Okorocha after they got an interim forfeiture order. Our investigation showed that the property was acquired by a company, Etcha Venture, a limited liability company in 2007, so it cannot be said that the property belongs to Okorocha entirely. EFCC is claiming that N220 million was used to renovate the building, but I am aware that the property was put to use as a hotel that has been funding the Rochas Foundation Colleges for over 20 years. “In as much as the matter is subjudice, common logic shows that it is nothing but the political vendetta against the person of Okorocha,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity