Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday assured students of the new Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUST), Ikorodu, that he would make the institution bigger and best choice in Nigeria. Sanwo-Olu gave this assurance when he had a stopover at the Ikorodu campus of the University, while on his way to the commissioning of the new plant of Kimberly-Clark Factory in Odonguyan area, just as the governor also assured the students that he would work towards reducing the institution’s school fees. Addressing the students, who came out to welcome him after his helicopter landed at the school of technology car park, Governor Sanwo-Olu said he was committed to making LASUST one of the best universities of choice in Nigeria. “Great students of Lagos State University of Science and Technology. You are now university students; it is going to work well. We would continue to do what we’re doing to ensure that you finish well. JAMB has put your name (Lagos State University of Science and Technology) as a full university. “We know you have a small concern about your school fees, we are going to look at it and we are going to bring it down. We are going to be building this university that would be bigger than even LASU very soon,” the governor assured. It would be recalled that the National Universities Commission (NUC) Executive Secretary, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed on February 8 handed over certificates for two new Lagos universities – Lagos State University of Education (LASUED) and Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUST) to Governor Sanwo-Olu at the commission’s headquarters in Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. With the issuance of clearance certificates of operation by NUC, Lagos State University of Education is now the 56th state university and 204th University in Nigeria, as well as the second University of education in Nigeria while Lagos State University of Science and Technology is 57th state university and 205th university in Nigeria. The two universities are in addition to the existing Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, established in 1982 by the first Civilian Governor of Lagos, the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Lagos State now has three state-owned universities. Speaking at the event, Governor Sanwo-Olu expressed optimism that the two newly approved state-owned universities would be reference points in academic circle in no distant time. He said operation of the two additional universities would assist in meeting the demands and needs of the teeming youths who were craving for higher education to be future leaders and reference points not only for themselves and families but for the nation. Governor Sanwo-Olu said converting erstwhile Lagos State Polytechnic to a University of Science and Technology will bring about innovative engineering, science invention and other innovations that are critical to the development of the country and state; adding that the conversion of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education into a University of Education was a proper and right thing to do given the demands and the present needs of students. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…I’ll make LASUST  I’ll make LASUST Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…I’ll make LASUST  I’ll make LASUST ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity