There is a passage from Alice In Wonderland by Lewis Carroll that says, “If you don’t know where you are going, any road will get you there.” This simple quote illustrates the importance of knowing your desired destination in life and work. This concept is especially true for those in leadership positions. Purposeful leadership may sound nebulous, but when we witness a leader who understands and lives their unique purpose, we clearly see the positive impact. Recently, I witnessed a terrific example of purposeful leadership in action. I was having a coaching session with a rising young executive. During our conversation, I asked, “what is the one big thing you can do to increase your growth and impact as a leader?” She paused and said, “my most important focus for continuing to develop and increase my impact as a leader is to be more deliberate about aligning my daily actions with my purpose.” Her answer shared the essence of purposeful leadership. Great leaders live their values and receive the well-being that comes from being true to their purpose while striving to accomplish their most important results. What is a leader’s purpose? A leader’s purpose explains their “why” of leadership and should be a North Star that provides clarity and direction when navigating the complex situations that come with leadership. A leadership purpose answers the following questions. What do you love to do as a leader? What positive impact do you want to have on the world? What relationships do you want to nurture or establish? What has changed because of your leadership? 4 benefits of being a purposeful leader 1) Motivation and well-being We have all witnessed the magic that can occur when a capable leader is in a role that aligns with their core purpose. Progress towards meaningful work acts as a magnet for maximizing a leader›s effort, intellect, emotional and social intelligence. These ingredients are necessary for a leader to achieve their full potential. Unfortunately, leaders often find themselves in situations where their leadership role is disconnected from their purpose, making it difficult to lead with the passion, drive, and engagement needed to demonstrate their best selves. The list below can help you assess if your leadership role aligns with your purpose. Your work as a leader should allow you to experience: High energy and enthusiasm Strong commitment to the organization, workgroup, and role Consistent levels of excellence A clear vision of desired outcomes Great leaders understand that a clear and meaningful purpose is the foundation for authenticity, motivation, and well-being throughout their leadership journey. 2) Consistency Leaders whose actions align with their purpose are consistent with their responses, even in a rapidly changing business environment. Without a clear and understood purpose, a leader’s actions often feel random or manipulative. When people know how a leader will act, it increases engagement and satisfaction, leading to greater employee productivity. Consistency does not mean that the leader is not adaptable or capable of making appropriate changes based on new information and changing dynamics. It just means that they take the time to explain why they have changed direction and help others understand why the change aligns with the values and purpose of the leader and organization. If a leader does not behave consistently, employees do not feel safe to take action and feel like they need to wait to see what they are asked to do before taking action. Even if employees know what they should do, they will hesitate. Inconsistency leads to uncertainty, delays, and additional stress for employees. 3) Clarity during complexity A leader›s purpose is the compass that keeps them moving in the right direction during times of uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity. A leader can articulate a meaningful purpose, but if it does not guide their actions, it will damage the trust and well-being of their employees. Purposeful leaders do not blame circumstances or conditions for their behavior. Clarity and commitment to their purpose allow them to choose their best actions versus reacting out of fear, uncertainty, or frustration. 4) Creates healthy boundaries A leader’s purpose acts as a guide for making good decisions about how to prioritize their limited time and energy. I am surprised by how often leaders feel their day-to-day activities disconnected from their purpose.  A clear and meaningful purpose helps leaders, in good conscience, use their noes to protect their yesses. This clarity of purpose-driven decision-making allows leaders to create healthy boundaries for how they invest their time and energy. Unfortunately, too few leaders take time to define and continually refine their unique leadership purpose. This is a mistake because leaders that demonstrate a clear and meaningful purpose experience many essential benefits for themselves and those they lead. The most effective and inspirational leaders are deliberate about defining their leadership purpose and aligning their daily actions to that purpose. They understand that this is the foundation for authenticity, meaning, and well-being as a leader. Do you know your leadership purpose?