The Magistrate Court sitting in Kano State presided over by Chief Magistrate Muhammad Jibril, has adjourned a criminal trial against Abdulmalik Tanko and his two other accomplices over the alleged murder of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar to 9th February 2022. This is just as Chief Magistrate Jibril ordered the remand of the defendants in a correctional centre. However, Tanko alongside Hashimu Isyaku, 37 and Fatima Musa, 26, have been docked on a four-count charge of culpable homicide, conspiracy, kidnapping and concealing/ keeping in confinement a kidnapped person. But, when the case resumed Wednesday for a mention, the prosecution counsel, Kano State Director Public Prosecution, Barrister Aisha Mahmoud, informed the court that they have filed charges before Kano High Court. The Prosecutor said, “We filed the charges because the offence alleged to have been committed by the defendants are not triable by this court. However, the Kano Chief Judge has directed the case to High Court Number 5. We apply for another date to terminate the First Information Report(FIR) before this court.” It will be recalled that on the mastermind, Abdulmalik Tanko, being the proprietor of Nobel Kids Comprehensive College, Kano, conspired with two others to kidnap Hanifa. Mahmoud earlier alleged that Tanko held Hanifa hostage in his house situated at Tudun Murtala Quarters, Kano, for six days and killed her with rat poison, put her remains in a sack and buried her in a shallow grave. “The defendants collected the sum of N100,000 ransom out of the N6 million earlier requested.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Court adjourns sitting  Court adjourns sitting Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Court adjourns sitting  Court adjourns sitting