Ahead of the conduct of the 2022 Population and Housing Census, the National Population Commission (NPC), on Tuesday, inaugurated the Census Technical Working Group (CTWG). The Working Group is expected to supervise the entire census project, providing guidance on all technical issues and serve as a clearing house for all census matters subject to the approval of the Commission. While addressing the group at the Commission’s headquarters in Abuja, NPC Chairman, Hon Nasir Isa Kwarra, said membership of the CTWG was carefully constituted, taking into account the professional competence and commitment of selected individuals. In view of this, he said it was imperative for members to bring to bear, their technical expertise and wealth of experience spanning the last two censuses especially as the Commission aims to deliver its first digital census to the nation. Earlier, the Chairman of the Census Committee of the Commission, Dr Ipalibo Harry, noted that the constitution of the CTWG is a necessary step towards enhancing the technical quality of the entire census process. Dr Harry disclosed that other functions of the group include advising the Commission on pre-census, census and post-census activities, developing the methodology and instruments for the Census and providing a platform for articulating and coordinating the activities of the census. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The CTWG is also to develop Census Logistics plans, periodically report progress and challenges to the Commission and develop terms of reference and make recommendations on the composition of relevant national census committees,” he said. The Group is headed by the Acting Director-General of the Commission, Mrs Patience Mbagwu with Dr Inuwa Bakari Jalingo serving as Secretary, the Chief Technical Adviser (CTA), Dr Collins Opiyo was seconded to NPC by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) as part of its technical assistance to Nigeria’s census project. Other members are Directors and selected Deputy Directors of the various departments of the Commission. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Population commission inaugurates 2022 census technical working group FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari Population commission inaugurates 2022 census technical working group MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details