The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) last Friday arrested a self-styled “Personal Assistant on Media Matters” to Oyo State governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, one Babawale Daniel Olayinka and 25 others at Soka area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, over alleged Internet-related fraud activities. The suspects, according to a statement made available to Nigerian Tribune in Abuja on Monday by EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, were arrested by operatives of the anti-graft agency from its Ibadan zonal command following verified intelligence on their cybercrime activities. According to Uwujaren, 25 of the suspects had admitted involvement in internet fraud activities. The indicted suspects, according to the statement, were: Wale Jegede; Adekunle Solomon; Babawale Daniel Olayinka; Olanipekun Adams; Toheeb Ademola; Olatunji Gbolahan; Oyowevotu Moses; Olaide Ibrahim Opeyemi; Olamilekan Rilwan; Olamilekan Akinyemi; Lekan Adenuga; Salami Segun; Lawal Samuel, and Kolawole Fuad. Others were: Olarenwaju Gbolahan; Makinde Olamiposi; Michael Timileyin; Sheriff Ololade; Adewale Dayo; Ajobola Tajudeen; Kazeem Warrees; Obinna Duru; Shotayo Sola; Mohammed Suleiman and Makinde Ajibola. The EFCC spokesman stated that an identity card was recovered from Babawale Daniel Olayinka, one of the 25 indicted internet fraud suspects, introducing him as a PA, Media Matters to Governor Makinde. Items recovered from the suspects included seven exotic cars, several laptops, mobile phones and incriminating documents. Uwujaren then informed that the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigation was concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…EFCC arrests self-styled  EFCC arrests self-styled Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…EFCC arrests self-styled