An event in Ado Ekiti “Aso-Oke Plugging”, organised mainly to promote the Aso Oke fabric and its versatility by Treasure Stitches, has drawn the crème de la crème of Ekiti and beyond, including the wife of the state governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, to the runway to showcase the evergreen Yoruba cloth. Convener of Aso-Oke Plugging and proprietor, Treasure Stitches, Mrs Adeola Abiola, said the exhibition was all about promoting the hand-woven fabric made and worn by the Yoruba people. “The idea is to promote Aso Oke into everyday use and for economic benefit”, she said and commended Mrs Fayemi “for promoting Aso Oke so well.” Mrs Fayemi dazzled on the runway with her unique Aso Oke design as the star attraction at the Adetiloye Hall, and afterwards eulogised the eternal fabric and canvassed for its preservation. “Aso Oke is about identity, as a Nigerian, an African person and most importantly, as Ekiti people,” she said. There is a demand for Aso Oke at every ceremony, she noted and urged the people to plug in for the use of Aso Oke to get out of poverty, generate income and also help prevent Aso Oke from extinction. Dr Yemisi Adeyeye, guest speaker at the event said people should find a place in the production, marketing and usage of Aso Oke, saying “we the users should be the makers and even export to other places.” Mrs Adetoun Tade, President, International Visitor Leadership (IVLA) Alumni Association, commended Abiola for promoting Aso Oke, saying it should be globally relevant, the reason why her group was supporting the initiative. Ekiti Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Mr Muyiwa Olumilua, promised that the state would partner with the brand promoters in their journey. Government functionaries and professionals from Bayelsa and Enugu states; USA were on hand to witness the beautiful fashion outing. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity