The senator representing Abia South at the National Assembly, Enyi Abaribe Friday formally declared his interest to become the governor of Abia State, come 2023. He made his intention known when he visited the state secretariat of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to consult with an expanded executive caucus of the party, stating that he would be “the governor that Abians will be proud of.” Abaribe who is the Senate Minority Leader, said, “I am going to be not just a governor but the governor of Abia people irrespective of where the person comes from,” he said and harped on the need for PDP to give a ticket to “a winnable candidate” in order to sustain its control of Abia. Abaribe said he has the requisite capacity, experience and knowledge to govern Abia, and therefore asked the party to consider him as that person that will lead the party to victory in the 2023 governorship poll. He said the PDP lost the 2015 general election due to complacency in spite of the fact that it had everything going for it, warning that Abia PDP should guard against complacency in 2023 and harped on the need for the party to field the right candidate and not take things for granted in the belief that being the ruling party would guarantee victory irrespective of the popularity of the candidate. He observed that with the signing of the Amended Electoral Bill into law by President Muhammadu Buhari “the game has changed” hence it would no longer be business as usual in the ways and means that elections are won. Responding, the state chairman of Abia PDP, Hon Asiforo Okere, lauded Senator Abaribe for all he has been doing for the people of Abia who had sought his help. He assured that the party would provide a level playing field for all aspirants, adding that “nobody should do anything or allow his personal ambition to destroy the party. We owe all aspirants an equal opportunity.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Abaribe declares guber  Abaribe declares guber Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Abaribe declares guber  Abaribe declares guber ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity