A Shari’a Court, sitting at Rigasa, Kaduna, Kaduna State, has remanded two women who are wives to one Alhaji Danlami Tasiu, in a correctional facility for two weeks for allegedly fighting and biting each other in Bukuru area of Kaduna. The judge, Malam Salisu Abubakar-Tureta, gave the order after he found that the women had bitten each other and not as claimed by one that she was innocent and being oppressed. Abubakar-Tureta said the remand was to enable them reflect on their actions and adjourned the case till February 28 for ruling. One of the wives, Azima Usman Tasiu, dragged her second, Aisha Tasiu, to court for allegedly beating and biting her. Azima told the court that she was the third wife to Tasiu, adding that she was beaten due to a little misunderstanding she had with Aisha’s son. According to Azima, “It was my turn to cook and I went to fetch water from the well, where I met Aisha’s son. I asked him to allow me to fetch water before him but he refused. “His mother them came and cut the rope tied to the item we used in fetching water and took it to her room. “I followed her to get it back. Immediately I entered her room, she slapped, hit and bit me,” she said. Aisha, who is the second wife to Tasiu, said that Azima started the fight by attacking her from behind and beat and bit her on her shoulder. The judge, who was curious about their claims, asked them to show parts of their bodies they had the bites and they did. The judge said that the case was an issue of two people having a fight and not one person being oppressed by the other. Besides, Tasiu told the court that he met them fighting and made effort to separate them but to no avail. He stated that he was likely to divorce the two of them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity