The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) has granted the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) an operational licence to commence Direct Satellite Broadcasting (BSB); as well as Internet Protocol Television (IPTV). While presenting the document to the NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim in Abuja on Wednesday, the NBC Director-General, Balarabe Shehu Ilela said the licence would give more voice to the scheme. He said the NYSC as one of the successful achievements of the Gowon administration has achieved its purpose of uniting the country in several ways, and also contributed immensely to national development. The NBC DG added that the commission was saddled with the responsibility of regulating the media industry in the country and also issuing operational licenses as approved by the government. “The commission normally gives licence in trust and we believe this will be used for the purpose it is given. We are very proud to be part of your progress. With somebody like you, we are sure our license is in safe hands,” llela said. He said the radio license was underway. In his remarks, the NYSC DG assured that the scheme would utilise the opportunity of the broadcast station to promote its programmes, including government policies and programmes. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NYSC gets NBC’s approval  NYSC gets NBC’s approval Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NYSC gets NBC’s approval  NYSC gets NBC’s approval MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details