Two persons lost their lives while fourteen passengers escaped death, as a 16 seater bus they were travelling in, caught fire while on the motion at the Nataco section of Lokoja Abuja expressway. The accident occured around 5 pm on Thursday, when the bus which took off from Lokoja metropolis, was heading to the Northern part of the country when it suddenly burst into flames. According to an eyewitness account, the two who lost their lives were said to have been trapped, while those who narrowly escaped sustained various degrees of burns and have been rushed to the Federal Medical Centre Lokoja. The cause of the fire could have been a result of sudden explosion. However, men of the Roads safety corps, Nigeria Police and volunteers were seen working hard to save the lives of those trapped in the inferno. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Sup. William Aya, promise to contact the officer in charge of the jurisdiction who later confirmed it. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details