The Xiaomi Corporation has announced that the much-anticipated Redmi Note 11 Series will launch in Nigeria on Wednesday, the 9th of February, 2022. A statement from the company said that with its hugely popular product series with over 240 million units sold worldwide, Redmi Note Series continues the legacy of challenging what is possible. This series of mid-range devices is set to offer superior specs in the realms of camera, display, battery and charging efficiency, providing high-level performance to suit the ever-evolving needs of consumers across the board. Redmi Note 11 Series is the next step in Xiaomi’s global mandate to make innovative technology both accessible and affordable. According to the company, “Introducing the Redmi Note 11 Series is just the beginning of Xiaomi’s 2022 objective to satisfy Xiaomi fans’ appetite for cutting-edge technology and further elevate user experiences. “The spirit of the Redmi Note 11 Series also acts as a call-to-action to Xiaomi fans, inspiring them to rise to their everyday challenges and create a better version of themselves. “As the year progresses, the company is set to release smartphones and AIoT technologies that enables Nigerians to maximise their lifestyles and make the most of every moment”, it said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Redmi Note 11 Series set for launch in Nigeria on Wednesday  Redmi Note 11 Series set for launch in Nigeria on Wednesday  Redmi Note 11 Series set for launch in Nigeria on Wednesday  Redmi Note 11 Series set for launch in Nigeria on Wednesday MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details