The Sports Minister, Sunday Dare has congratulated Nigeria’s Anuoluwapo Juwon Opeyori on his victory at the All Africa Individual Badminton Championships in Kampala, Uganda over the weekend. Opeyori defeated Brian Kasirye of Uganda in straight sets, winning 21-14, 23-21 in a thrilling and pulsating encounter. The Nigerian had earlier, also beaten the 2017 Champion Adel Hamek of Algeria in straight sets in the semifinal. Dare commended Opeyori for doing the nation proud and displaying the unconquerable Nigerian spirit at the Championships inspite of being the country’s sole representative. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  Sports Minister congratulates new African champion  Sports Minister congratulates new African champion  Sports Minister congratulates new African champion Sports Minister congratulates new African champion [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday resumed viewing of the 24hrs footage of the October 20, 2020 shooting of #EndSARS protesters by personnel of the Nigerian Army…