Bayelsa State governor, Douye Diri, on Sunday, called on leaders and members of the Lagos State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to unite the party ahead of the 2023 general elections, saying it is only unity that would win the state for the party in 2023. Diri, who served as the Lagos State Congress Electoral Committee Chairman, made the call while addressing party delegates at Ikeja, the venue of the exercise, saying true members of PDP must be in pursuit of unity, even as he expressed the hope that the exercise, which voting is ongoing would be peaceful. “All we want is unity in the Lagos State chapter and if you don’t want unity then you are not a PDP member. PDP in Lagos will not be in disunity again after this Congress. “It is only unity that will make PDP occupy the governorship position in Lagos State. We expect that this Congress would be peaceful, successful and it will build the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) together. “Therefore, we would like all of us who have been accredited as delegates to listen to your leaders and elders and do the needful and vote on who they have already agreed on. “In case you don’t believe in that, you are equally free to express your franchise. We are in a democracy and we are not forcing it down on anybody,” he said. Party delegates from Agege and Alimosho have since cast their votes, while those from Amuwo-Odofin and Apapa are doing theirs as at the time of filing this report. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked.State congress: Gov Diri advocates unity in Lagos PDP ahead 2023 State congress: Gov Diri advocates unity in Lagos PDP ahead 2023 ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity