A leading financial technology company, Tingo Inc, has unfolded plans to raise $500million in a bid to expand across Africa. The firm which is currently regarded as the most valued fintec company in Nigeria is valued at about $6.3 billion over the US counter with thriving businesses in Nigeria. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer of Tingo Inc, Dozy Mmobuosi  disclosed to Bloomberg that the company would be raising a combination of debts and equity financing through a private placement. According to him, the firm has succeeded in selling about 30 million mobile devices with 9 million subscribers through its Nwassa platform. Mmobuosi explained  that the acquisition would include commodities firm and a fintech company. From this new financing, he said Tingo intends to commit $100million to a fund that will increase credit mostly to female farmers across 19 African countries within the next 3years. He added  that the ultimate reason for the push is for Tingo to be listed on the New York stock exchange in a bid to becoming a Global company. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity