The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has canvassed for transparency and honesty in service delivery across Nigeria’s public and private sector economy. He added that the duo is the needed contributing factors that will engender meaningful progress and development in the country. Ngige made the call in Abuja, when he flagged off a sensitisation workshop for senior management staff of his ministry on the importance of adopting transparent and anti-corruption practises in the conduct of government businesses. Represented at the event by Director, Special Duties/Projects, Dr Martina Nwordu, the Minister emphasised the workshop was strategically organised to re-educate the managerial staff on the understanding and importance of transparency in service delivery, and how to support the efforts of government in curbing corruption. The Minister described the eradication and prevention of corruption in the conduct of government businesses as a global best practice, and urged the officers to key into it to lift the image of the nation. Ngige urged them to apply the knowledge to be gained from the workshop in conducting the affairs of their departments and units in a transparent manner void of corrupt practises. The Minister pointed out that corrupt practise went beyond financial crimes to also include other forms of malpractices in the conduct of government duties such as acts of omission, negligence and commission along the lines of delivering on daily schedule of duties. He added that attitude to work and manner of interaction with stakeholders, both internal and external, would affect the ease of doing business and contribute directly or indirectly to corrupt practises. In welcoming the participants, Permanent Secretary, Labour and Employment, Dr Yerima Peter Tarfa, stated that the workshop would deepen the participants’ understanding of their roles in checking corruption and related malpractices in government business. Tarfa, represented by Director, Reform Coordination and Service Improvement Department, Dr John O. Magbadelo, stated that the objectives of the workshop were to  promote anti-corruption and reduce corrupt practises associated with workplaces; keep all staff abreast of the latest guidelines relating to fighting corruption in the workplaces, and ensure integrity and accountability in the discharge of official duties in the Ministry.