Former Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Tourism in Lagos State, Philip Aivoji Olabode, on Monday emerged the state chairman of Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the party’s congress conducted, defeating five other aspirants for the position. Aivoji emerged winner of the exercise, which started on Sunday at 11 am with the accreditation of delegates at the Police College in Ikeja GRA, followed by voting and counting at Haven Hall beside Archbishop Vining Church, also in Ikeja, which was finally brought to conclusion around 6 am on Monday. Aivoji polled 839 votes, defeating his closest rival, Dr Amos Fawole with a margin of 23 votes as he scored 816 votes. A total of 1,786 delegates were accredited for the congress. The congress nearly went rowdy as supporters of Fawole made frantic move to reject the number of votes cast for Aivoji, alleging that three of the chairmanship aspirants bear the same first name Philip with Aivoji and thereby insinuated that the votes of others were counted in favour of Aivoji. Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Hon. Douye Diri, who is also the Bayelsa State governor, upon being intimated with the allegation, ordered the recounting of all the votes for Aivoji. This led the returning officer to embark on the task as he resulted to pronouncing Aivoji first name instead of reading out his full name, and thereby making the process easy. It was after this was done that Fawole’s supporters’ fear was allayed as it was affirmed that no error was committed in the counting of the votes in Aivoji’s favour. Declaring Aivoji the winner of the exercise, Governor Diri said Aivoji emerged the winner after the open electoral system, adding that he polled 839 votes to defeat his five opponents. “I hereby announce the result, we have six candidates for the chairmanship position and Philip Olabode Aivoji polled 839 votes to emerge the winner. I hereby declare Philip Aivoji as the chairman for Lagos PDP,” Diri declared. The governor, therefore, urged members of the party to be united and work for its success so that PDP can produce the next governor of Lagos State, come 2023. Upon declaration of result by Governor Diri, supporters of Aivoji went into jubilation at the venue of the exercise, congratulating themselves for the victory. It would be recalled that the initial plan of some leaders of the party was to have a consensus list of exco members for the rescheduled congress, which was initially planned to hold last Wednesday but had to be shifted again. The exercise first failed to hold last October at the popular Tafawa Balewa Square in Onikan area of the state, as the congress was midway cancelled. A Series of meetings were held with the Oyo State governor, Engnr. Seyi Makinde, said to have met with leaders of the party in the state, and agreeing on consensus arrangement to pick the new exco for PDP in the state. Governor Diri also disclosed at the venue of the exercise on Sunday, that his committee also made effort to make the party leaders in the state have a common front on the list of candidates, which he said the leaders agreed to, but when the position was presented to the delegates, it was rebuffed, leading the committee to opt for voting. Also at the congress, Benedict Felix Tai emerged the state Deputy Chairman of Lagos PDP, polling a total of 852 to defeat his opponents. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.