The Police Service Commission (PSC) has ordered further investigation into the indictment of suspended DCP Abba Kyari by a report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Mr Ikechukwu Ani, the Head of Press and Public Relations of the Commission disclosed this in a statement issued on Friday in Abuja. He stated that the commission had also ordered that further investigation be carried out by a different panel within two weeks, half the time spent on the original investigation by the police. Ani stated also that the commission had consequently deferred a decision on Kyari’s case who until his suspension was the Officer-in-Charge of the Intelligence Response Team of the Nigeria Police. He said the PSC took the decision at the continuation of its14th Plenary Meeting chaired by Alhaji Musiliu Smith, its Chairman. “Kyari had earlier been indicted by a report of the FBI and was also investigated by a special panel set up by the Inspector General of Police (IG). “The I-G had earlier forwarded the FBI report to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for legal advice,’’ Ani added. He stated also that the PSC also considered 20 pending disciplinary matters and five appeals and petitions from the I-G and aggrieved serving and ex-police officers. He added that consideration was also given to five promotions appeals at the meeting. He stated also that the PSC reaffirmed its earlier decision to exonerate SP Shaaba Gboyako, former Chief Security Officer, to a former IG of the unwholesome act. “The Commission is mindful of the need to safeguard its corporate image and defend its institutional integrity and directed the IG to implement its decision as it affects the officer without delay,’’ Ani added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Police Service Commission  Police Service Commission Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Police Service Commission  Police Service Commission