Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, stormed the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Secretariat on Thursday few hours after the Court of Appeal judgement which validated Abdullahi Abbas as the authentic Chairman of the state chapter of the APC. Nigerian Tribune checks revealed that the Federal High Court in Abuja had earlier accorded recognition to Haruna Ahmadu Danzago as the authentic chairman of Kano APC before Thursday judgement. But a three-man panel of Justices Haruna Tsammani, B. I. Gafai and J. Amadi, on Thursday, quashed the judgement of the Federal High Court which gave the Senator Ibrahim Shekarau’s G-7 faction of the APC control of the party’s structures in the state. Governor Ganduje came to the party national secretariat in the company of Abdullahi Abbas who was presented with the Certificate of Return by the national secretary of the party, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. Speaking with newsmen after the short ceremony, Governor Ganduje promised to extend hands of fellowship to members of the G-7 led by Ibrahim Shekarau. He said: “I’m appealing to them because we are members of one family, the APC. So I’m appealing to them to come and Kano State is almost one hundred percent APC, we will come together and forge ahead in such a manner.” The Kano State governor further thanked his Yobe State governor and Chairman of the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for his efforts in ensuring peace in the Kano State chapter of the party.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.