The Delta State executive of the All Progressive Congress (APC) was on Tuesday inaugurated with a charge on the members to be ready for the battle ahead 2023 general election in the state. Addressing a mammoth crowd of the party faithful at the inauguration in Asaba, the deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege said the members should hit the ground running as the goal of the party was to defeat the governor of the state, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and ” any other person he may attempt to impose as governor in the state.” Omo Agege also charged the executive members to reach out to those aggrieved chieftains of the party with a view to enriching the fortunes of the party adding that there were neither victors nor vanquished as a result of the last congresses. While congratulating decampees of the party to the People Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, the Senate president said however that they would be received back to the party should they repent of their misdeeds. On his part, the senator representing Delta North, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi advised the faithful to be loyal and committed to the cause of defeating the PDP government in the state. Nwaoboshi, the immediate past Chairman of PDP assured that there was nothing the ruling party would do to retain power that will be new to him adding that ” the battle has started…we will match them back to back at the election.” Earlier, the Chairman of the party, a former chieftain of PDP, Mr Omeni Sobote expressed optimism that comes 2023, the party would produce the next governor. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate