The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, NCAA has issued Air Operators Certificate, (AOC) to a new airline, Xejet. The new premium airline after the completion of the certification processes received the document at the NCAA office at the Murtala Muhammed International airport, Lagos. Speaking at the presentation of the certificate, the director general of NCAA, Captain Musa Nuhu: “I must say, to go through this certification process is not an easy thing. I am aware that effectively this process took almost 1 year? Having gone through this process, we are elated and delighted because what that means is that you have brought yourself to compliance in conformity with our regulations. The issuance of this certificate means that you have complied with the requirements.” The DG who was represented by Engr. Godwin Balang, the General Manager, Air Operators Certification and Surveillance at the NCAA, Mr Godwin Balang,  emphasized: “This is one of the critical element of the activities we are required to do as an authority which is certification. Now you are going to go into business. Immediately we give you this certificate, what we expect is that you keep to those standards.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE In the same vein, the Certification Project Manager at the regulatory agency, Captain Toyin Lawani  also persuaded the new airline to put up good operation going into business saying: “To maintain an AOC is not as easy as the acquisition because from the moment you receive the certificate, you are expected to keep improving on your operations and maintenance processes. We are guiding you at Xejet in order for you not to make mistakes in your operations. You must try and become an exemplary company in the industry, so that even  NCAA will refer to you as a good example.” Responding, the Accountable Manager and Chief Executive Officer of Xejet said, Mr. Emmanuel Iza stated: “I really appreciate all the efforts put into this. It has been a learning process for us at Xejet. We have done it only once and I appreciate all the feedback. It is Seven years, two months and two days from the day I started the journey of Xejet and to the glory of God, today we have come to this milestone. I still cannot believe it. I just want to say thank you. “I also want to say that the covenant we have made to keep to safety and compliance and standards to be good ambassadors of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority is not something that we put on paper alone but it is something that we intend to and I personally intend that those standards are being abided by. I know you have been thin on manpower but you are able to deliver within a short possible time.  MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details