Former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, has described the final signing of the Electoral Bill into law by President Muhammadu Buhari as a triumph for all Nigerians and all advocates of genuine representative governance. George made this declaration on Friday in a signed statement titled: “The Electoral Law is a right step in the right direction,” copy of which he made available to newsmen in Lagos, even as he congratulated the president “for being courageous and forward-looking enough to append his signature to this very significant Bill which has now become part of our law.” This was just as he pointedly said that the next agenda that needed the attention of President Buhari is the devolution of powers where all sections of the country would be empowered to develop at their own pace without the overbearing intervention of the centre. The PDP chieftain, who is also the Atona Oodua of the Source, while welcoming the signing, described the Electoral Law as quite significant in many ways, saying it would forever remove the democratic process from the shackles of godfatherism and money bags who continued to sabotage the will of the people. Besides, Chief George said the new law would equally reduce a lot of electoral malpractices through the brazen forging of figures and other manipulative processes that hindered the democratic growth, declaring that was now on the path of liberation and emancipatory importance as the will of the people would now triumph over the shenanigans of a dirty few. “This Electoral law is quite significant in many ways. It will forever remove the democratic process from the shackles of godfatherism and money bags that continue to sabotage the will of the people. It will equally reduce a lot of electoral malpractices through the brazen forging of figures and other manipulative processes that hinder democratic growth. “The Nigerian democracy is now on the path of liberation and emancipatory importance. The Will of the people will now triumph over the shenanigans of a dirty few,” he said. “This, no doubt, will deepen our democratic values and ensure the endurance of freedom and liberty. It is indeed a right step in the right direction,” he added. The PDP chieftain, while noting that Nigerians had suffered a lot for this democratic dawn, said the citizens must all applaud every opportunity that enhances their collective freedom, adding, therefore, that the next agenda that Buhari should focus his attention on is the devolution of powers where all sections of Nigeria would be empowered to develop at its own pace without the overbearing intervention of the centre. “Nigerians have suffered a lot for this democratic dawn. We must all applaud every opportunity that enhances our collective freedom. “The next agenda that needs the attention of President Buhari is the devolution of powers where all sections of our nation will be empowered to develop at its own pace without the overbearing intervention of the centre,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Final signing Electoral Bill  Final signing Electoral Bill Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Final signing Electoral Bill  Final signing Electoral Bill ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity