President Muhammadu Buhari has extended heartfelt condolences to Murray Bruce family on the passing of their mother and matriarch, Mama Margaret Murray-Bruce, aged 95. A statement issued by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) Wednesday informed that the President paid tribute to the peace-loving and deeply religious woman who invested so much of her God-given resources and talent in developing people, adopting many children, inspiring them to face life’s challenges with determination, optimism and joy. He urged Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, Founder Silverbird Group, Francis Murray-Bruce, and Mr Guy Murray-Bruce, President, Silverbird Group and Chairman, Independent Broadcasters Association of Nigeria (IBAN) and other members of the Murray-Bruce family to find inspiration from Mama’s legacy, particularly her personal example of decency and always looking out for the best in others. President Buhari prayed for the repose of the soul of the departed and comfort for the loved ones that mourn. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Buhari condoles Murray Bruce on mother’s death Buhari condoles Murray Bruce on mother’s death