CHRISTOPHER Adebayo Alao-Akala! Gone just like that! Erin wo, ajanaku sun bi oke! This is by no means a death of mourning (oku ofo), because it hurts too deeply; it hurts me to the bone marrow. None of us here can say that we imagined that a day like this would come so soon, but here we are, mourning one of the greatest men to have ever treaded the soil of our dear State. As the poet Emily Dickinson writes: “Because I could not stop for Death /He kindly stopped for me /The Carriage held but just Ourselves /And Immortality.”I wanted, we all wanted– to have Alao-Akala around for many decades to come, but alas, as Sikiru Ayinde Barrister of blessed memory sang, death kills the diviner (babalawo) like he does not know Ifa, and the medicine man (onisegun) like he does not know medicine. We have all sewn the agbada of death. Alao-Akala, a devout member of the Baptist family, is now in the Land Above, rejoicing with the saints triumphant. Of a truth, good men must die, but death cannot kill their names. For, as they say again, the only truly dead are those who have been forgotten. Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala can never be forgotten, will never be forgotten!! Otunba Alao-Akala—I do not even know where, or how, to begin this tribute, for he was, in all ramifications, a good man, my father, my mentor, a jolly good fellow. Of course he was no saint; he had his own fair share of human foibles, but even his staunchest critics will agree that this land has lost a gem. He was one politician who knew too well, how to be a political opponent without being a sworn enemy, a lesson that many have failed to learn. Alao-Akala had an incredible ability to forgive and many took advantage of it: he quickly let bygones be bygones. He was different not just in politics but in his personal life. He bore no grudges, bowed to superior argument, took care of the people without flinging his goodness in their faces. He was, as Gospel musician Ayefele has said, a destiny helper for many, including me. He lifted me up, taught me how to lift others from the morass of despondency into happiness and fulfillment. Everything I have become in politics, I owe to him. He was the one Almighty God used to turn my aspirations to vindication,. He was my godfather. He will never be forgotten. I am not just saying this as an Ogbomoso woman: that is the testimony on the streets, throughout the length and breadth of Oyo State. Alao-Akala was a man of the people who believed that governance ought to be a Ministry of Happiness; that political differences ought to be managed in order to pursue the greater good of society. Adieu, the People’s General, the one of whom the people sang with gusto: “Ninu gbogbo won, gbogbo won pata, Alalao l’a wa mo, oun lo duro ti wa o, ninu gbogbo won, gbogbo won pata.” Alao-Akala stood by the people. He believed in local content: empowering local contractors, building from within. Oyo prospered under him, although he was called names by those who failed to appreciate the direction, meaning and focus of his brand of politics: namely, politics as a means of making society better, helping the people to live better lives. As the chief mourner, Governor Seyi Makinde, aptly said, we have lost perhaps the most experienced politician this state has ever produced. As he said: “Chief Alao-Akala was a grass-roots man. He rose from a local government chairman to Deputy Governor, and from Acting Governor and to State Governor. Who else has the credentials? Nobody in Oyo State.” In another instance he wrote: “Oyo State, perhaps Nigeria, has lost its most experienced and liberal politician in person of Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala. He was an apostle of politics without bitterness and the pacesetter of development across the zones of the state.” Naturally, the tributes have poured in, in torrents. President Muhammadu Buhari described him as a former police officer and civilian governor with an extensive political career who served the country and the people of Oyo State with dedication, making very important contributions to the development of institutions and communities. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo spoke of him as a thoroughbred statesman determined to make the critical difference in the lives of the people he led and who succeeded in building confidence across a wide spectrum of the social strata. Former President Goodluck Jonathan spoke of him as a dedicated public servant who served the nation to the best of his abilities. From former Vice President Atiku Abubakar to the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who harped on his meritorious service in the Police force and his contributions to the development of Oyo State, the enhancement of the welfare of the people, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Kayode Fayemi and Mai Mala Buni, Senator Teslim Folarin, Dr. AbdulAzeez Adeduntan, among so many others, it has been tributes galore.  As we all know, the People’s Governor had a distinguished track record in the police before venturing into politics. It was in September 1995 that Otunba (Dr) Adebayo retired from the Nigeria Police as the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Logistics and Supply, Oyo State Police Command, Eleyele, Ibadan. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar was not speaking tongue-in-cheek when he described Alao-Akala as a prolific politician whose records of achievement as governor remain enviable. To the  Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin, chief Alao-Akala was just “a quintessential and selfless leader whose magnanimity and administrative acumen would be greatly missed “. Our departed hero indeed touched lives. Knowledge of the importance of the people’s inputs in governance decisions caused him to introduce the “E pade Gomina” programme in Oyo State. He was the one who built our new House of Assembly complex, the Mediation Centre at the Ministry of Justice, the College of Agric in Igbo-Ora; Ajilete FM and Oke Ogun FM. The LAUTECH Teaching of Hospital & College of Health Science is the work of his hands. He refurbished Adeoyo Hospital, and ensured the prompt distribution of drugs to all hospitals and clinics owned by the Oyo State government. The compactors he bought are still being used as major tools for environmental cleanliness. He equipped the state fire services to combat fire outbreaks, purchased buses for the School of Nursing and built structures round the state institutions. He promoted the welfare of physically challenged people, battled poverty to a standstill through the Community Link Advancement Programme (CLAP), distributed taxis and buses to transporters, ensured prompt payment of bursaries and scholarships, constructed roads throughout the state and emplaced the Erunmu inland port to boost the state’s economic fortunes. He met IGR at N300m and raised it to N1bn in just eight months. He administered Oyo State with no debt and yet left behind N3.8bn in the state coffers. He uplifted Mapo and Atiba Halls to enhance their cultural and tourism potentialities. It is on record that Alao-Akala played a vital role in getting LAUTECH to be owned by Oyo State. He actually laid the foundation which our amiable governor, Engineer Oluseyi Abiodun Makinde built on and eventually got LAUTECH for Oyo State. This can be attested to by the Osun State Governor, Alhaji Isiaka Oyetola in his condolence message on Alao-Akala. Oyetola recalled the laudable role Alao-Akala played during the resolution of age-long battle between Oyo and Osun over the joint ownership of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso. I sincerely commend Governor Seyi Makinde for sustaining this legacy (LAUTECH ownership)which was dear to Alao-Akala.  May you also end well, Your Excellency sir. Writing on Facebook, someone recently recalled an encounter with the People’s Governor on June 3, 2010 when he was celebrating his 60th birthday at the Polo Ground, Eleyele. He wrote: “Naturally in such a situation, there was a stampede as everybody wanted to have a takeaway from the mint of N500 and N1000 currency notes, including the handicapped that usually loitered around Akala. In the process, a physically disadvantaged elderly woman was trampled upon and was wounded. Because of the stampede and confusion, nobody initially took notice but as Akala was leaving the dance hall, he sighted her as people were castigating her for constituting a nuisance in that kind of gathering, saying it served her well and wondering what she was doing there. Akala quickly went there without any of his aides. With tears almost coming out of his eyes, he comforted her. The woman was instantly transformed, seeing the governor by her side with such a caring attitude. And to totally maximise the joy of the woman, Akala put his hand inside his pockets and brought out a wrap of N1000 notes and gave her. The woman almost fainted. The applause was spontaneous and deafening! Goodbye the comforter, may you receive comfort where you are!” That was vintage Alao-Akala. He never looked down on anyone. He loved the masses with unblemished fervor. Rest on, Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala, till we meet to part no more.   