NATIONAL leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu, on Friday, said he is ready to serve Nigeria with zeal and make the country better. Tinubu, who stated this during a visit to the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, in his palace in Osogbo, said he had the quality that Nigeria is looking in a leader for to make the country greater. “I will not let Nigerians down. I have the brain and capacity. You hear them saying ‘can he do it?’ I am not sick. I only repaired my knee. I am not applying for the job of a gravedigger or a race runner; I am not a horse. I am not applying for the job of a bricklayer,” he emphasised. The former governor of Lagos State noted that the country is great, prosperous, united, not only in Africa but in the world. He said: “I offer myself the opportunity to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I have informed Buhari of this. I told him that I want to step in his shoes and not break a toe. I told him that I want to serve my country to the best of my ability. “God has blessed us with all resources – human and material. The only thing that is ready to streamline it for us is character. We must build that character of determination, resilience and perseverance. We must see ourselves as one nation that will bring prosperity for all. “I went to school to study accountancy and management. I am applying for a job of brain, intelligent thinking. I am ready to do things right. The job I want to do for Nigeria is for Nigeria to be greater and for us to leave a legacy of unlimited successes.” “I sold the APC to Nigeria. The Nigeria you knew in 2015 was sick and the APC was used as a cure. You believed in us and accepted our commitment. We told you that things that some people could not do, we would effortlessly deliver them. We promised to mend the broken place so that we could all be happy. “Today, outside the president, we the Yorubas are the highest and the most steady tribe that you can count on in the administration but democracy is sincere to everybody. It is calendered in the constitution that four years is for tenure and as president and governors; it is only two terms except for honorables and senators. “Now the calendar is ticking. It is now the season, period that Nigeria is looking for a thorough, solid hope and change for progress, prosperity and growth. “We need lots of jobs, solid education for our children. We need progress for our country. We want somebody that can bring that. We have in our old national anthem that thou tribe and tongues may differ, on brotherhood we stand. “We must be solid on that. We must know that it is the same blood that is running through our veins, irrespective of tribe and faith. We must have a good attitude for progress and prosperity. “It is about honest service to our country to bring progress, to give us joy and prosperity. You must find courage, determination, perseverance. You must find that fellow who will love you, respect you and prioritise national development. “As soon as I reviewed the constitution, I asked myself, ‘who is better than me?’ This prompted me to come out, consult and be ready to serve the country.” The APC chieftain sought the blessings of the Ataoja to make his political dream come true. Oba Olanipekun prayed God to allow Tinubu’s dream to come to fruition, saying the politician has the ability and finesse to advance the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity