At least one person identified as Lekan Osondi has been confirmed killed when armed hoodlums attacked travellers in Osogbo, Osun State on Sunday. The deceased was said to have been in his vehicle with three others who sustained injuries in the attack. The incident which happened at Oluode area of the town between 1pm to 2pm, caused pandemonium in the area as market women, hawkers and shop owners fled their business centres for safety. Investigations revealed that the perpetrators were armed with axes, cutlasses, broken bottles, guns, knives, charms and other dangerous which they freely used on their victims. Eyewitness account who identified himself as Adesoji, stated that the travellers were passing through the route to their destination when they were suddenly attacked by the hoodlums who hit the deceased head with a big stone that resulted to his death while three other occupants of the vehicle were inflicted with various degrees of injuries. The remains of the deceased had been deposited at the UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital Complex, Osogbo while the injured ones are being attended to in the same hospital. When contacted, the state police command through its spokesperson, Mrs Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the incident and said the police swung into action immediately they were informed. She further hinted that the police are on the trail of the perpetrators of the acts and promised to get to the root of the matter. Opalola however said that policemen had been deployed to the scene of the incident for peace maintainance and that normalcy had been restored in the troubled area. The police public relations officer thereafter assured citizens of the state that the police would do all it could to see that their lives and properties are adequately protected. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity