THE Niger State Pilgrims Welfare Board has one of the best systems of hajj fare collection and pilgrims’ coordination in Nigeria, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has said. The head of an inspection team from NAHCON, Alhaji Ahmad Mohammed, made the remark after inspecting facilities at the state’s hajj camp in Tudunfulani, Minna. Mohammed said he was impressed by the facilities provided at the permanent hajj camp, describing them as marvelous and standard. He commended the state governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, for his support for the board. In a remark, the executive secretary of the board, Alhaji Umar Makun Lapai, disclosed that the state had the highest number of pilgrims from the country in the last exercise before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Makun Lapai reiterated the board’s commitment to pilgrims’ welfare and transparency in its operations. Earlier, the chairman of the board, represented by a member, Muhammad Umar, commended NAHCON for the “good job” it had been doing and gave the assurance that Niger State would continue to work with the commission for successful hajj operations. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NAHCON commends Niger  NAHCON commends Niger Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NAHCON commends Niger  NAHCON commends Niger ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity