Over 600 residents of Ewu Oruku and Ipetoro communities in Sagamu local government of Ogun State on Sunday received free medical services. The one-day medical outreach orgnaised by an engineering company, Everest Metal Nigeria limited as part of its social responsibilities to its host communities covered provision of drugs, free eye tests and tests for other diseases. Everest Metal Nigeria’s Business Development Manager, Naresh Gupta, noted that the outreach is held annually to help residents of the communities identify ailments and diseases that needed medical attention. He noted that the drive is in addition to the health centre established for the community and in the factory. Gupta said: “We do this compulsorily every year and there are other emergencies that we take care of occasionally in the communities. “We are here with provisions for 600-700 persons. It is a general medical check up for fever, stomach pain, general body pains, weight loss etc and information about how to avoid chronic diseases.” One of the beneficiaries and a pastor in the community, Noah Rufus, noted that the outreach has afforded people like him opportunity to periodically asses their health status free-of-charge. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This is not their first time of doing this; we have known them as a model in the community infact they are leading the factory in this community. “We have lost count of the number of things they have done to this community. This is one of the programmes they have been doing and they have done it again this time. “They’re taking care of the health of the people in the community and people are happy despite it’s Sunday. People are trooping here en masse and are happy for this gesture,” Rufus said. Another beneficiary of the outreach, Adesina Adebayo, who also got free drugs after complaining of eye problems and body pains lauded the gesture. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN  ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M.  OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.