A road accident, involving two cars, has claimed two lives, a baby and several others injured, in Delta State. The incident, said to be a head-on collision, occurred Saturday afternoon along Eku-Sapele road of Delta. One of the cars is a Lexus RX 350 with Registration No. KTU 942GS Lagos while the other is a Toyota Sienna. The impact of the head-on collision was intense as the two vehicles were crushed and damaged beyond repairs. Sources said the cause of the fatal crash was overspeeding, leading to the death of two male commuters on the spot. It was gathered that the deceased and others involved in the accident were indigenes of Oghara, in Ethiope West Local Government Area of the state. They were said to be headed for a wedding ceremony at Agbor in the Ika South Local Government Area of the state when the incident occurred. A baby and several others in the twin vehicles, which appeared to run over each other in a video clip sighted by our correspondent, sustained life-threatening injuries. Official statements from both the Delta Police Command and the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) are still being awaited. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Road crash claims two in Delta Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Road crash claims two in Delta