Maryam Aliyu-Baba is a ceramist and advocate for healthy living based in Lagos but with her production outlet in Kaduna. In this interview by KANGMWA GOFWEN, she talks about the benefits of clay utensils. How did you come about the idea of your clay utensils? The idea came from a friend who had fertility issues and was advised by doctors to resort to natural remedies including using the clay pot after realising that the solution was to detoxify and cleanse the system. This opened us up to the realisation that there is a desperate need for a healthier planet and reduced plastic in circulation alongside a healthier lifestyle.  How are these utensils produced and what is their durability? They are created here locally from unadulterated African clay, and their durability can be attested to. We’ve got awesome reviews from those who rely on and use our utensils. The durability of our products can be likened to that of glass and ceramic wares, highly durable with an extra edge. They get better with time and proper use, and, of course, they break on impact. We mine the clay from the suburbs, process it locally and go ahead to mould it into the shapes and sizes which are fired upon drying.  This is seemingly a new idea, what is the market like for you and do you have a target market? The use of clay utensils is an ancient practice that has been lost over time and quite new to our generation. However, the market is picking up slowly as more exposure and research are directed towards it and its health benefits. People are taking time to get acquainted to it and that is why we are doing more to inform people  about the vitality that comes with using clay utensils and materials produced using clay.  As a brand, we have a target audience and not forgetting that, there are individuals who are health conscious and those who care enough for the planet in terms of change and sustainable development . Also, we have provisions for the elderly and those who are looking for relief from medical conditions as well as people conscious with their health.  The utensils are smooth and good looking, are they handmade? Yes, they are handmade,  and are produced with a lot of care and under an atmosphere that encourages best global health practices. We put our clay through tests to make sure we produce the best for customers and the society at large.  How long have you been doing this business? The business is barely a year old. I am a ceramist who has been selling ceramic decorative pieces for a long time. The focus on clay for health and wellbeing started a couple of months ago and it has been an interesting journey. Seeing as clay in all its forms is bio degradable and in line with SDGs  Tell us some of the benefits of using these utensils. The benefits of using clay are many, but a few would be mentioned here. Clay is alkaline in nature hence, a production of it blesses us with alkaline water and balances the PH of food when used for cooking.  It is also a major anti-cancer check. When we use clay as utensils and home made article, they provide reactors that eliminate toxic chemicals that aid the growth of cancerous cells. Also, its alkalinity makes it anti-viral and anti-bacterial, it  kills any viruses that it comes in contact with. Not to forget that recent researches are revealing that the covid virus can’t survive in alkaline conditions  – with the postulation being proved beyond doubt truly we can say that clay is on its way to be the new Gold. As regards natural remedy; it helps to curb and prevent ailments like blood sugar, blood pressure , heart diseases and much more. It also eliminates toxins, purifies water and adds elements like calcium, iron and others present in the earth and necessary for growth, healing and wellbeing. These are many but to mention a few.  Entrepreneurship is not devoid of challenges, what are some of the challenges you come across? Entrepreneurship is quite challenging, especially in our climes, dealing with major losses as a result of the natural issues all business owners in Nigeria face, like transportation deficit, bad roads, high cost of production like cost of power, among other peculiar challenges. like the difficulty of setting up and staying afloat as people are naturally slow to adopting changes, we of course have to invest decently to create the right awareness, it’s also not been easy to get investors to fast track.  If you are given a grant of 10million dollars how would that change your business? Hmm wow!! That would be great. As we would be out to make a huge statement as regards the use of clay. Also, It will allow us to actualize our visions, plans and complete the projects we have already embarked on. We are in the process of setting up a production center in Lagos, standardize our products and venture into exportation. We are also working on a reach program to aid potters see the viability of the business and the vast untapped opportunities that exist. Our immediate focus is on vulnerable women in crisis ridden areas.  Some time ago, the President described Nigerian youths as lazy, as a young person, do you agree to that assertion? I think that Nigerian youths are too diverse, many and vast to be put in such a category. Such statement can’t be generalised. A major pointer can be seen with how some of Nigerian youths are putting the country on the world map via their creative prowess but not to forget that we have the bad eggs too. In all we are not lazy, if given the avenue to be creative.  Where do you see this business in the next 10 years? In 10 years, we aspire to be a household name, a major player in influencing lifestyle change from the use of plastic and other conventional cookware materials which are toxic and harmful to both humans and the earth to clay which is bio-degradable and healthy.  Also, to be a major player in promoting a sustainable environment and provide healthy solution through the use of nature, clay. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Iwuanyanwu hails Makinde  Iwuanyanwu hails Makinde Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… Iwuanyanwu hails Makinde  Iwuanyanwu hails Makinde