A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Chief Wale Oladoja has appealed to the national leadership of the party to consider fielding the governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, as a presidential candidate in next year’s general elections. Oladoja stated this on the heels of information from credible sources indicating that some ex-military men had decided to field Akinwunmi Adesina as the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate in the election, noting that it will be disastrous for PDP to pick a weak opposition against him. According to the statement, Oladoja said the last three years of Governor Makinde’s administration in Oyo State has proven that he has the capacity to lead Nigeria to the promised land. The statement reads: “With the happenings in our polity, our party needs to consider governor, Seyi Makinde as a credible candidate for the 2023 election. Makinde in the last three years has done well in the areas of infrastructure, human development, education, health, empowerment, and other sectors of the economy. “He was a rich man before joining politics and remains such. The southern state must be allowed to present the next president, hence, we will be happy to see the two leading political parties presenting a southern candidate.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.