Emmanuel Awhotu George, who operates under the nom de plume Nino De Brown is a Nigerian singer and producer with a dynamic Afro-pop sound that draws from Rap, Reggae and hip-hop. When it comes to Nino De Brown’s sound, there is an overwhelming blanket of sweet-toned aggressive and honeyed vocals, the artist effortlessly transports us to paradise with his music, where a concoction of Afro-pop and Hip-hop and authenticity make an appearance. Recently dropping his new single “Corruption”, the artist is preparing to drop his debut album in the coming months, revealing that he has been recording the project for a while. With no set release date. Corruption’ comes after the massive success of his debut EP which he dropped earlier in 2021. In this Sidqiq production, Nino addresses social issues whiles keeping things simple and vibe. According to the Nino, the song is about bad governance, bad roads, killings by armed Fulani herders, corruption, and poor medical facilities in his country Nigeria. Judging by the impact and message of this single, it is certain the song will be well received by the general public as it tackles a topical societal issue. Nino De Brown said in a statement “ I enjoyed making “Corruption”, that one was pretty easy for me and as well it was therapeutic making it. I’m one of the guys that take their time with a record. I have been recording my debut full-length album. Yeah, it’s been exciting but I’m sure I still have one or two singles before it comes. Can’t wait for you to hear them! Nino De Brown says he would love to work with Burna Boy, Wizkid, Davido. I made a list, can’t find it right now. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Nino De Brown talks  Nino De Brown talks Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Nino De Brown talks  Nino De Brown talks ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity