We have been looking at the issue of the importance of hard and soft skills. Hard skills are the know-how you gain through education, life experience, training, etc. Hard skills generally deal with competencies like computer skills, fluency of language, technical ability, etc. Soft skills are personal habits and traits that influence how you work on your own and with others. They are intangible skills but they determine the way you communicate and interact with others. Success in any endeavor is dependent on how one balances hard and soft skills. Hard skills are essential to getting any job done but soft skills are vital to creating and sustaining a positive non-toxic functioning work environment. Both hard and soft skills are critical to effective operations in any endeavor. Soft skills include: 1)     Listening. “Fools think their own way is right, but the wise listen to others.” Proverbs 12.15 “Those who listen to instruction will prosper; those who trust the Lord will be joyful.” Proverbs 16.20 2)   Empathy. Ability to recognize, understand and be sensitive to the feelings of others . . .  seeing things from their point of view and imagining being in their shoes. “We who are strong [in our convictions and of robust faith] ought to bear with the failings and the frailties and the tender scruples of the weak; [we ought to help carry the doubts and qualms of others] and not to please ourselves.” Romans 15.1 Ampl “And as far as sunrise is from sunset, he has separated us from our sins. As parents feel for their children, GOD feels for those who fear him. He knows us inside and out, keeps in mind that we’re made of mud.” Psalms 103:12-14. 3)   Dependability and integrity. “No amount of talents, skills or charisma can sustain the way integrity, character and attitude does.” Sidney Mohede 4)   Self motivation. “The ants have no chief, no boss, no manager no one has to tell them what to do. You’ll see them working and toiling all summer long, stockpiling their food in preparation for winter.” Proverbs 6.7 – 8 6)   Effective communication. “Take advantage of every opportunity to practice your communication skills so that when important occasions arise, you will have the gift, the style, the sharpness, the clarity, and the emotions to affect other people.” Jim Rohn 7) Teamwork/collaboration “It’s better to have a partner than go it alone. Share the work, share the wealth. And if one falls down, the other helps, But if there’s no one to help, tough!”  CONCLUDED 