BHM has announced the exit of its Head of Finance And Business Administration, Oyindamola Benjamin-Black. Oyindamola will be leaving the company after over eight years, to take on a senior role at Canada’s leading construction supervisory and management company, Capital Paving Inc. She joined BHM in 2013, as a Financial Accountant and quickly rose to become the head of finance, advising consultants and senior management on strategy, budgeting, planning, policies, optimisation, controls, and risk. Speaking on her exit, BHM Founder and CEO, Ayeni Adekunle said, “It is a bittersweet feeling to see Oyindamola go as she has been with us for almost a decade and made a success of transforming our business and finance operations, helping us attain operational efficiencies and remarkable growth. I have no doubts that she will achieve great exploits at Capital Paving Inc. and I have to say that they are very lucky to have her.” Oyindamola holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Covenant University, and is a chartered accountant with the ACCA (UK), the global professional accounting body offering the Chartered Certified Accountant qualification in the UK. She is also a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA) and has achieved her CGA (Certified General Accountant) designation from Ontario, Canada. She is a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in the UK, holding her ACCA, as well as a member of CPA Ontario, Canada’s leading body of professional accountants. “I’m looking forward to diversifying with this new opportunity at Capital Paving Inc. My father’s career as an Engineer in building and road construction has inspired me to learn more about the construction industry and I look forward to applying my expertise to ensure growth and efficiency at Capital Paving Inc..” “I am grateful to the BHM Group team and the CEO, Ayeni for the opportunity to play a pivotal role in optimising the company’s processes and systems achieving over 100 per cent growth, year on year, in revenue, client base and profits in the past five years,” Oyindamola said. While at BHM, Oyindamola’s work on the team helped BHM Group acquire and retain high-ranking clients, cut operational costs, and increase annual revenue by over 400% in less than a decade. BHM is home to international public relations consultancy BlackHouse Media in the UK and in Nigeria; the corporate and Pan-African communications advisory and media company, Info Digital Africa; and communications technology startup Plaqad.com.