Ahead of its February 26, 2022 date for election of its substantive national officers, the All Progressives Congress Caretaker/Extraodinary Convention Planning Committee has finally conveyed notice for its national convention to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). A letter dated February 2, 2022 was received on Thursday, February 3, 2022 by the electoral body. The letter titled “Notice for the Conduct of National Convention” was signed by the National Chairman and Secretary of the APC CECPC, Mai-Mala Buni and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, respectively. The letter read in part: “Follow up to our letter referenced APC/NHDQ/INEC/19/021/40 dated 11 July, 2021 on the NOTICE FOR THE CONDUCT OF NATIONAL CONVENTION. “This is to inform the commission that our great party has scheduled to hold its National Convention on Saturday, 26th February, 2022. “This serves as a formal notification pursuant to the provisions of Section 85 of the Electoral Act (2010) as amended. “Kindly arrange for your officials to monitor the exercise accordingly. “While hoping to receive your cooperation, please accept the assurances of our highest esteem.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details