The African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for African Development (AUDA-NEPAD), has said the Federal government has prioritised the improvement of agricultural output for food sufficiency, building a thriving and sustainable economy so as to address the challenges identified in its second Country Review Report. AUDA-NEPAD said the Nigerian government has also enhanced social inclusion and poverty reduction, as well as building a system to fight corruption and improve governance. The National Coordinator/CEO of AUDA-NEPAD/ African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), Princess Gloria Akobundu said this on Thursday in Abuja while briefing journalists on the outcome of the Second Peer Review of the country. Akobundu who noted that Nigeria has been reviewed for the second time, said the country under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari will launch the report for implementation of the National Programme of Action (NPoA) which is the outcome of the report. She further stated that the launch and the implementation of the country review report and the NPoA will further address the challenges identified in the report, strengthen democracy and good governance for economic growth and development. This, she said, will be done in collaboration with public and private sectors and civil society organisations. She also informed that despite the challenges the country is currently facing, tremendous progress and success has been made in many areas particularly in infrastructure development, agricultural revolution, humanitarian services, fight against corruption, among others. The national coordinator noted that President Buhari has assured that the government will effectively implement the NPoA. She said: “In view of the outcome of the Report, AUDA-NEPAD /APRM Nigeria on its own part will ensure the effective implementation of the National Programme of Action (NPoA) at the 36 states and 774 Local Government of the country including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “We will ensure the generation of progress report which is expected to be presented at the upcoming 32nd APR Forum of Heads of State and Government In 2023. In his remark, Chairman of the National Governing Council, APRM, Senator Abba Ali, said the Overall, process seeks to entrench good governance practices in participating states by deepening the principles of democracy, transparency, accountability, integrity, respect for human rights, and promotion of the rule of law, in order to create an enabling environment for sustainable development. Hr said: “Being peer-reviewed for the second time is a great step in the right direction for the growth and development of the nation.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Nigerian govt prioritised agriculture  Nigerian govt prioritised agriculture Nigerian govt prioritised agriculture  Nigerian govt prioritised agriculture