Former vice president of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has described the insecurity in Niger State as very pathetic. Atiku who was the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections stated this when he paid a courtesy visit to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State at the Government House, Minna on Tuesday. Atiku told journalists that the governor had shared with him the enormous security challenges bedevilling the state, describing it as unfortunate. “The level of insecurity in Niger State is a pathetic one. I got a vivid picture of what is going on from the governor and it is unfortunate,” he said. On the issue of his presidential ambition for the 2023 general elections, the former vice president said: “I am on a courtesy call. I will let you know at the appropriate time.” Earlier, Governor Bello explained to the former vice president the extent of the destruction and pains inflicted on the innocent people of the state, adding that the last few days attacks have been devastating as they have become more daring. He, however, expressed optimism that the security challenges will be a thing of the past in no distant time. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country.