Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 2023 presidential aspirant and former secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Anyim Pius Anyim, has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state of desperately forging signatures of PDP members in the state. Anyim stated this on Tuesday while addressing members of the party during an enlarged meeting of the party in Abakaliki, the state capital. He then accused 15 lawmakers of the Assembly who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of desperation in a bid to maintain control of the House. The 15 APC lawmakers had on Monday this week, elected the member representing Afikpo North-West constituency and Deputy Leader of the House as the Assembly Deputy Speaker after a letter allegedly written by the Deputy Speaker, Chief Obasi Odefa that he has resigned as a member of the House was read on the floor of the House by the Speaker, Chief Francis Nwifuru which led to the declaration of his seat vacant by the Speaker. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Odefa, who is PDP and representing Onicha West constituency, however, denied ever writing any resignation letter. Anyim maintained that PDP will soon take over the leadership of the current House of Assembly. His words: “Some people are desperately forging signatures. Some people desperately are concocting members. But the fact cannot lie. Our House of Assembly members are intact. Nine of them are here as you can see in this meeting. “Without these nine lawmakers, you can’t get 2/3rd majority to do anything in Ebonyi House of Assembly. I want to assure you, by next month many more will join these our lawmakers and by the time they know it, we will take over Ebonyi State House of Assembly. “In this family today, we have a big fish, a member of APC BoT, a leader, a critical stakeholder in Ebonyi, the pride of Ebonyi State government. He is here with us. It is my singular honour on behalf of this caucus to present to you, Chief Austin Edeze. The empire is crumbling. It has started. It will continue to crumble.” On his part, the senator representing Ebonyi North and former governor of the state, Sam Egwu commended the party members for their steadfastness. He disclosed that in a few days’ time, more people will be leaving the APC led government in the state to join PDP.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity