Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, on Friday, disclosed that the burning of his 17,000 mango farm will not deter his investment in the State. Tribune Online recalled that the farm was set ablaze sometimes last month, by some hoodlums. Obasanjo said the burning of the farm would further assist him to expand the project with assurance from the state government and other stakeholders in the state. He said this when he received a delegation from the State and the community where the farm is located, at his residence in Abeokuta. He said the destruction of the farm was just a setback for the vision he had for the project. The delegation was led by the Chairman of the Gwer East Traditional Council, Dr Dominc Akpe, the House of Assembly member representing Gwer East Constituency, Hon Geoffrey Agbatse, Chairman Gwer East Local Government, Hon Ortserga Emmanuel, among others. “The land was acquired long ago and payment made for the lease of the land. If the government has not paid any compensation to any family or that they have not been adequately compensated, burning of the farm, was not the best to do. “You have said it yourself that the farm employed about 150 workers before it was burnt. Our plan was for the project to provide at least 1,000 persons directly, both on the farm and when the processing factory takes off. “What has happened, was not a loss to we investors alone but to the 150 that were working on the farm before it was burnt and the people that we intend to engage in the processing factory, that had been delayed now even with the level of unemployment in the country. “The governor did everything to make the project a reality. What they have burnt, was a pilot project for what we have in mind if things work well. “The governor, the Tor Tiv, the Bishop and other notable leaders and stakeholders, had emphasised with us, they had intervened and had assured us that justice would be served. “What has happened is not in the character of the people of Benue and particularly, the community, where the farm is located. “You have said that you need Investment in the state either from within or outside the state. Therefore, the world should not judge Benue by this act of a few disgruntled elements that perpetrated this act. “Let me assure you that we are not going to leave the area. We are looking at what we can do when the rain starts. The project will only be delayed but we shall improve on what we have on the ground. “The government had promised us the possibility of giving us more land and this will give us an opportunity for bigger plantation,” he added. Akpe in his remarks emphasised with the former president the incident while disclosing that some of those who set the farm ablaze had been arrested. The traditional ruler assured that those at large would equally be brought to justice. Akpe said, “We have come to appeal to you not to lose hope despite the arson. During the several meetings and discussions after the incident, it was obvious that we initially regarded the farm as yours and did not own it. “We have now discovered its importance to us and have resolved to own it by providing security, regularly monitoring it, and holding regular meetings with the host community to ensure that what happened on the 29th January 2022, never ever repeat itself. “Moving forward, we have identified other parcels of land and when we are able to strike an agreement with the host communities, request you to expand the farm to other parts of the local government.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Burning of mango farm  Burning of mango farm Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Burning of mango farm  Burning of mango farm ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity