Four boys who allegedly beheaded 20 year old, Sofiat Okeowo, last Saturday, have been remanded on the order of an Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court on Thursday. The boys, Mustakeem Balogun (20); Soliu Majekodunmi (18); Abdulgafar Lukman (19) and Waris Oladehinde (19) were charged by the Police on a two-count charge of conspiracy and murder. The Police Prosecutor, Inspector Lawrence Balogun, told the court that the defendants committed the offence on Jan. 28 at about 11:0pm at the Kugba area in Abeokuta. Balogun alleged that the defendants conspired among themselves and murdered Sofiat Okeowo who is a girlfriend to one of the defendants, Soliudeen. He said the defendants killed her by cutting off her head with a cutlass. According to the prosecutor, the defendants murdered Sofiat with the plan to use her for money ritual. The prosecutor said that the offence committed contravenes sections 324, 316 of the Criminal Code Laws of Ogun 2006. The Magistrate, I.O Abudu, who did not take the plea of the defendants ordered that they should be remanded at Oba Correctional Service, pending the legal advice from the Director of Ogun State Public Prosecution. She adjourned the matter till March 14 for mention. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…  Court remands four boys who beheaded 20-yr-old girl, Sofiat in Ogun  Court remands four boys who beheaded 20-yr-old girl, Sofiat in Ogun Court remands four boys who beheaded 20-yr-old girl, Sofiat in Ogun  Court remands four boys who beheaded 20-yr-old girl, Sofiat in Ogun. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details