A student of Government Science Secondary School, Birnin-Gwari in Kaduna State was shot by suspected bandits on his way to register for his JAMB/UTME in Kaduna State, while seven others killed in separate attacks in the area. This was contained in a statement issued by the Birnin Gwari Vanguard for Security and Good Governance and signed by its Chairman, Ibrahim Abubakar Nagwari in Kaduna on Saturday. The statement noted that three other people escaped with mild wounds, while 57 people were equally abducted. The statement noted, “the nightmare of armed banditry along Birnin-Gwari-Kaduna highway has further deteriorated in last twenty-four hours. “Today, around 10:00am, a final year student of Science Secondary School Birnin-Gwari escaped with bullet wounds on his shoulder on his way to register for JAMB/UMTE in Kaduna. “The dreadful armed bandits spray bullets on the vehicle conveying the student and others at Manini village after Kuriga along Birnin-Gwari Kaduna Highway. “The student is awaiting surgery for the removal of the bullet on his shoulder at Jibrin Maigwari General Hospital in Birnin-Gwari. “Similarly, armed bandits killed seven people at unguwar Bula, Unguwar Dafillo and Ijinga in Randagi district, Birnin-Gwari on Saturday. “The bandits on motor circles numbering fifty attacked the communities around 11 o’clock in the morning on Friday and lasted for four hours, preventing people to conduct Juma’at prayers. “The bandits, apart from killing six people on the spot, another person died this morning at Jibrin Maigwari General Hospital, while 57 people abducted with many of them being women from the same community. “While commending the local government authorities for taking care of the hospital bills of those injured in the attacks, we are calling on the government to as a matter of urgency set up a special centre for JAMB examinations in Birnin-Gwari. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity