A prominent traditional ruler in Pushit, Mangu local government area of Plateau State Da Dikyet Gupiya has been abducted in his palace by gunmen suspected to Fulani bandits. It would be recalled that the latest abduction was the third in recent time. The Paramount ruler of Pyem Chiefdom in Mangu LGA, HRH Charles Mato Dakat was abducted in December 2021 while the District Head of Vom, Jos South LGA, HRH Da Gyang Balat was abducted early January 2022. A source close to the palace revealed that the gunmen numbering about ten invaded the palace on Thursday at about 9:00 pm while the traditional and his family were watching television and whisked him away at gunpoint to an unknown destination. The source further revealed that the gunmen went away with the traditional ruler unnoticed by people within the vicinity until the family who witnessed the abduction of the monarch raised alarm. It was gathered that security men and vigilantes within the community quickly mobilised to track down the marauders but were yet to locate him. Nigerian Tribune learnt that the kidnappers are yet to get in touch with the palace or relations of the monarch since his abduction at about 9:00 pm on Thursday. The State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Gabriel Ubah who confirmed the abduction said the State Police Command has deployed its men to the area and presently combing the hills in the area to arrest the perpetrators. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Another traditional ruler abducted in Plateau  Another traditional ruler abducted in Plateau  Another traditional ruler abducted in Plateau  Another traditional ruler abducted in Plateau ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity