President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday opened the 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair organised by the Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industries, Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) saying his administration will promote ease of doing business in the country. This year’s Kaduna International Trade fair which is the 43rd edition, each year  brought together the public and private sector from all over the world  in order to enhance business and economic growth in the country. Declaring the trade fair open, President Buhari who was represented by the Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adebayo reiterated the Federal Government commitment in partnering with the private sector. While saying his that his intends to have a strong and resilient economy, it will also enhance the ease of doing business in the country. According to him, “The recent COVID-19 Pandemic, and its attendant effects on crude oil prices, foreign exchange and investment inflows has shown that there is need to urgently reconsider and modify the thinking on investment led by comparative advantage only, in order to guarantee Nigeria’s economic security. “Our need to drive job-intensive economic growth means that we have to enable investment in areas with high potential for job creation and reducing the demand for foreign exchange. He noted that the above experiences  also serves as an opportunity to change the country narrative to become less vulnerable to incidents which was not  created,” he said. Buhari also assured that the FG is deploying efforts to build and strengthen resilience in key sectors which strengthen Nigeria’s economic security in addition to traditional areas of comparative advantage, he further reiterates that government is focused on resolving the challenges which remain in business environment. He further commended Kaduna state Government for being one of the most frequently mentioned destinations for investors, for implementing innovative ways and KADCCIMA on the occasion of the 43rd fair. Also speaking, the Nigerian Ambassador to Chad, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (rtd) said the Federal Government of Nigeria would strengthen international trade with the Republic of Chad for the benefits of both countries. He said that he was at the Kaduna International Trade Fair with a delegation from Chad to see business opportunities they can tap from for the benefit of their people. “This is the first time we came with a Chadian delegation to discuss with Nigerian businessmen and women to understand the business environment. The idea is for them to see opportunities, strengthen partnership and collaboration for trade that will be beneficial for the Chadian people.” The ambassador added that the Federal Government would also take a delegation to Chad to see available opportunities they can tap from for the Nigerian businessmen and women. On his part Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai who was represented by the Commissioner, Business, Innovation and Technology, Professor Kabiru Mato commended KADCCIMA for the annual event which he said will provide opportunities to company to showcase their products to boost state economy. He said the state has been making deliberate efforts in the empowerment of youth and women across the state. In his remarks the president of the chamber, Alhaji Suleiman Aliyu said the choice of the theme is anchored on the need to focus attention on the efforts of the Nigerian Government in revamping the dwindling fortunes of the economy in a way that it will be in good position to compete favourably with its peers in the world. National President, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Mr. Ide Udeagbala, commended KADCCIMA for the consistency in organising the trade fair. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity