A 24-year-old Computer Science student at Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, Ogun State, Adebowale Babatunde Ismail, has been convicted and sentenced to seven months imprisonment before Justice Uche Agomoh of the Federal High Court, Ibadan, Oyo State for the offence of criminal impersonation. The judgement was secured by the Ibadan Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Tuesday. The offence is contrary to Section 22 (2) (b) (ii) of Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention etc.) Act, 2015, and punishable under Section 22 (2) (b) of the same Act. The defendant was said to have fraudulently represented himself as Annabel Torrens to one John Dauherty through an email address: dsprinklse@gmail.com, in order to take advantage of his victim. Upon his arraignment, Babatunde had pleaded guilty to the one-count charge, and in view of the plea, the prosecution counsel, Oluwatoyin Owodunni, reviewed the facts of the case and prayed the court to convict and sentence Adebowale as charged. After listening to both parties, Justice Agomoh convicted and sentenced the defendant to seven months imprisonment. He also ordered the convict to pay N2.4 million in restitution, forfeit a Toyota Rav 4 SUV and an iPhone 11pro mobile phone to the Federal Government. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Court sentences MAPOLY student to seven months imprisonment for impersonation MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details