Luxury, regardless of its expression, is underpinned by one key element – craftsmanship. The Balvenie, a luxurious range of whisky from the stable of William Grant and Sons distillery, Scotland, is crafted by Malt Master, David C Stewart. To bring this concept to life, The Balvenie collaborated with three incredibly talented artists and hosted guests to an opulent evening of fine dining, classical entertainment, live music, art exhibition, and of course a taste of Balvenie. The event was held at the prestigious Vanilla Restaurant, one of Abuja’s leading dining establishments. Compered by Actor, Artist, and choreographer, Ibrahim Suleiman, guests were introduced to the brand collaborators who in turn shared their Makers stories. The trinity of makers are Babalola Oluwafemi, who doubles as an artist, curator, designer, and a major promoter of African arts; Jacqueline Suowari, a visual artist using the Ballpoint pen primarily as a means of expression and Dotun Popoola, a synergetic metal sculptor who has carved a niche for himself with his hyper-realistic monumental metal sculptures. Speaking on his Balvenie maker’s story, Babalola Oluwafemi said: “I like to tap right into that originality that so many of my contemporaries have, in the quest for modernisation, abandoned. A lot of my art has been inspired by stories of old, sculptures of old times, traditional arts and fashion, and most of all, the will to keep things as connected to the beginning and the centre of all things, as possible.’ Oluwafemi, the CEO of the Amazing studios further stated that in a world where little or no attachments to one’s roots and foundation are prevalent, originality becomes rare, almost endangered, all in the squalor of everyday living. Referencing the craftsmanship in The Balvenie brand, he explained that one could see how easily originality and tradition have been preserved, and where necessary, protected over decades with feats as simple as staying true to the idea of growing its barley. Also, Dotun Popoola, a synergetic metal sculptor, who has carved a niche for himself with his monumental metal sculptures said: “I take my time to select different scraps and weld them together, each piece is a product of tenacity, perseverance, and long-suffering but the end product gives a fulfilling breath.” Additionally, Popoola explained that his artistic practice is based on a personal philosophy that art should be explored as an agent of change, and as a socio-cultural review. “My goal is to create a luxury brand out of discarded materials and wastes that make our environments unsightly and threaten the ecosystem,” he revealed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Provost of Federal College  Provost of Federal College ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity