GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has approved the appointment of the Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, as the next Olubadan of Ibadanland. The approval followed a recommendation to that effect made by the Olubadan-in-Council and which was communicated to the governor. The governor’s approval was confirmed in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr Taiwo Adisa, on Monday. The statement read: “I am pleased to announce the appointment of the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, High Chief Lekan Balogun, as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. “The appointment is in line with the Olubadan of Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration, as well as the unique and time-tested tradition of our people. “On behalf of the government and the good people of Oyo State, I wish the newly confirmed Olubadan a successful reign blessed with peace and unprecedented progress.” Similarly, the governor approved the revocation of the amended Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration, which regulates the selection to the Olubadan chieftaincy stool. The statement indicated that the governor made the revocation order, dated February 11, 2022, in line with the powers conferred on him by the 1999 Constitution (as amended), in view of the judgements of the Oyo State High Court on February 1 and 10, as well as sections 7, 20,26 and 30 of the Chiefs Law of Oyo State 2000. The four separate laws/ White Papers approved for revocation were made public by the immediate past administration between 2017 and 2018. The statement listed the laws/white papers to include the amended declaration regulating the selection to the Olubadan Chieftaincy stool, published in August 2017; the implementation of the White Paper on the review of the existing Olubadan of Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration and other chieftaincies in Ibadan, published in August 2017; the approval of appointment of beaded crowns for the Olubadan in Council published in March 2018 and the appointment of beaded crowns and coronet wearing obas published in March 2018. Prior to the official announcement by the governor in a statement issued by Adisa, 10 officials from Ibadan SouthEast Local Government, Mapo, had conveyed the letter of approval to the Olubadan-elect at his Alarere residence, New Ife Road, Ibadan. The delegation included the chairman of the local government, Emmanuel Alawode and the Director of Administration and General Services, Mrs Olufunke Adedotun. President Muhammadu Buhari has, however, congratulated Senator Lekan Balogun on his appointment as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. A statement issued by Mr Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, on Monday, expressed the president’s belief that the dedication of High Chief Balogun in diligently serving his people has rightly earned him the new position. “He trusts that the appointment of the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland, which validates the noble and cherished tradition of Ibadan people in selecting a traditional leader, will bring peace and prosperity to the land and continued honour to the crown,” the statement said. Following the announcement by Governor Makinde, family and well wishers of the new monarch had commended the governor for the approval. The Aliiwo family, in a statement by its head, Daud Balogun, thanked the governor for assenting to the recommendation of the kingmakers. He also appreciated the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) for its roles in dousing the tension as well as necessary interventions to ensure that the respected traditional system is intact. Meanwhile, preparations are now ongoing for the coronation ceremony.