Three persons, on Monday evening, lost their lives while three others sustained injuries in a fatal motor accident that took place opposite Austin Farm by Onitsha-Ayamelum road, Anambra State. An eyewitness account said the driver of the sienna was on speed while trying to avoid an oncoming motorcycle, hit the other motorcycle beside him while on motion, somersaulted and crashed into the bush. Confirming the incident in a statement, the DRC Margaret Onabe, Ag, Sector Public Education Officer, Anambra State Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), said the cause of the fatal crash was excessive speed. She said the crash that occurred at about 5:20 pm involved 6 male adults and that three died and three others sustained injuries. According to her statement, the crash was between two vehicles; An unidentified commercial driver of a white Toyota Sienna with registration number: ABN504SZ, and an identified driver of a private motorcycle with no registration number Driver’s name: Okwudili Okeke. She said as, at the time of filing the report, the injured victims were rushed to a nearby Health centre by FRSC personnel Ayamelum Station Office and some good Samaritan and 3 male adults were confirmed dead. The corpses of the dead victims were deposited at the mortuary. There was no obstruction caused. “The Sector Commander Anambra State Corps Commander Adeoye Irelewuyi, while sympathizing with the families of the dead victims, he equally wished the injured victims quick recovery. He warned drivers within the state to desist from excessive speed and drive within safe speed limits. And that Traffic rules and regulations must be obeyed always. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services Rulers World President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Road accident kill three persons, injure three others in Anambra  Road accident kill three persons, injure three others in Anambra  Road accident kill three persons, injure three others in Anambra  Road accident kill three persons, injure three others in Anambra MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details