Celebrated Nigerian-born Canadian actor and producer, Pascal Atuma turned 50 today, February 22 with mixed feelings. According to the celebrated thespian who is also the Chairman/CEO, TABIC Records Ltd., while he’s is grateful to Canada and Canadians who found him worthy as the recipient of the ‘2021 Best Black Actor In Canada’, the Ikwuano Umuahia, Abia State-native frowned at the social ills of tribalism, religious intolerance, bitter politics, and corruption beguiling Nigeria, his country of birth, thus preventing her from attaining its full potential. “As grateful as I am, I also have mixed feelings because of the adverse effects of tribalism, religious intolerance, bitter politics, and corruption in Nigeria, my country of birth. We have failed to attain our full potential mainly due to bad choices in choosing some of our past leaders,” Atuma stated on his official Instagram handle. The versatile entrepreneur then urged the youths to rise and save Nigeria by not voting along the religious, ethnic and tribal line when the general elections come in 2023. “…If Nigeria can look for the best men and women irrespective of tribe or religion, we will have a chance to rebuild Nigeria from its present ruins caused by years of Ethnic Politics and confusing religion,” he stated. “Tribalism put round pegs in square holes, thereby making it extremely difficult for the best hands and professionals to participate in building a nation. “Tribalism will raise primordial favours above rewards for good jobs done, creating a downward slope for Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and hence impoverishment is imminent. “Therefore, if Nigeria must progress, we must eradicate tribalism. Let’s unite the Centrifugal forces of Nigeria beyond ethnic and sectional sentiments in the choice of candidates into public office. “Development and wealth do not speak the language of Ethnicity; Growth and development speak a universal language. Therefore, if Nigeria can look for the best men and women irrespective of tribe or religion, we will have a chance to rebuild Nigeria from its present ruins caused by years of Ethnic Politics and confusing religion. “Together, we can build the Nigeria of our dreams. Happy birthday to me,” he concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Osun APC faction rejects  Osun APC faction rejects ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity