About eighty-three newly-promoted police officers from the Anambra State Command have been decorated by the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Echeng Echeng. While decorating the officers with insignias of their new ranks at the Force Command, Amowbia, on Tuesday, the Commissioner, charged them to redouble their efforts towards fighting crimes and exhibiting high professionalism. He also tasked them with civility to members of the public and respect for human rights to ensure the lives and property of people of the state were protected. He said: “The promotion is in line with the Inspector-general of Police resolve towards boosting the morale of Police officers for effective service delivery. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The promotion comes with greater responsibility, dedication and discipline in your various duty posts. “Our problems are peculiar. You’re not promoted to go back to sleep. You are promoted to work 24hours to provide security for the lives and property of the people of the state. “For those of you who think you can go to your house and sleep, be ready to do the job alone. You have to supervise the men under you to enforce discipline; your character and dedication will come into play. While congratulating the beneficiaries on behalf of the Inspector-general of Police Alkali Baba Usman, the CP prayed to God to grant them grace to contribute meaningfully to the growth of the force and vision of the IGP. Among the newly-promoted police officers were a Superintendent of Police who was promoted to the rank of Chief Superintendent of Police, 15 Deputy Superintendent of Police elevated to the rank of Superintendent of Police and 67 Assistant Superintendent of Police 2 promoted to Assistant Superintendent of Police 1. Some of the newly promoted Police officers, including SP Stephen Ewa, SP Joy Yusuf and ASP Mike Ugwu, appreciated the IGP and the Police Service Commission for finding them worthy of this promotion. They promised to redouble their efforts in protecting the lives and property of Nigerians. FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari 83 promoted police officers, decorated in Anambra Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 83 promoted police officers, decorated in Anambra