Former Enugu State Governor, Chimaroke Nnamani, has thrown his weight behind the current governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the next year’s election. His support for his predecessor in office came as political leaders in the Southeast geopolitical zone are pressing to produce the next president of the country. Nnamani expressed the belief that Uguanyi is the best man for the job in a statement issued after consultation with stakeholders and political leaders including the Ebeano family, saying that justice, fairness and equity demand that the Nigerian state allows the Southeast to produce the next president. He said: “Our leaders including the Ebeano political family in Nigeria and in Diaspora have consulted widely and seriously believe in the actualisation of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and president in 2023.” Nnamani, who represents Enugu East in the Senate, regretted the sad socio-economic experience Nigeria has had to endure, noting that the country requires a consensus builder like Ugwuanyi to deal with knotty national challenges. According to the former governor, Ugwuanyi as the PDP leader in the Southeast has an enviable record as a consensus builder with every segment of the society, pointing out that the governor is the architect of the political harmony in Enugu State. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Nnamani further said: “Governor Ugwuanyi is humane, tolerant and accommodating. All the traditional rulers, the clergy, workers union, the business community and the political class attest to his uncommon leadership qualities. No section of the State is marginalised or denied its dues. “His successful handling of the PDP zoning arrangement assignment which brought peace among party faithful across the country is a testimony of his capacity to build consensus.” Continuing, Nnamani stated: “He managed the assignment 100 per cent and blemish-free. He did this in days, thereby confirming his competence and arbitrage qualities.” “Governor Ugwuanyi’s relationship with the labour unions is unprecedented. No record of an industrial dispute with any workers’ union since he assumed office. He runs an open-door administration and all stakeholders are satisfied. He is the kind of leader Nigeria needs as President. “Governor Ugwuanyi is patient and a master of give-and-take required in consensus building. A good listener and negotiator with demonstrable competence. This is exactly what the nation needs at this time. “Governor Ugwuanyi is a fit and proper person to lead Nigeria out of the doldrums at this time. He has demonstrated the ability to calm frayed nerves, ensure equity and justice for all. “He has the finesse, panache, good leadership traits needed to restore the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria.” Nnamani also observed that with Ugwuanyi, Nigeria can be assured of even developments, a peaceful and prosperous country where everyone irrespective of tribe or religion will have a sense of belonging under one nation. He, therefore, urged the PDP to search no more for a presidential candidate but to give the Southeast the opportunity to prove that Nigeria can work by giving the 2023 presidential ticket to Governor Ugwuanyi. Nnamani expressed optimism that Ugwuanyi’s candidacy will win the presidential polls for the PDP and ultimately restore peoples’ trust and confidence in government. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa 2023: Nnamani backs Governor Ugwuanyi for PDP ticket FACT CHECK: US Did Not Give Nigeria 48 Hours Ultimatum To Detain Abba Kyari 2023: Nnamani backs Governor Ugwuanyi for PDP ticket MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details