The national leadership of the College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has sought for dialogue with the governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, over the lingering crisis at the Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE), Omu-Ijebu. The body commended Abiodun for the progressive efforts of his government in restoring the glory of the institution. Addressing newsmen at a press conference in Abeokuta, on Thursday, the union National Vice President, Comrade Olusegun Lana, said the audience with the governor would afford them to bring to the table the win-win ideas that would help him consolidate his administration’s laudable efforts in revamping the College. Lana flanked by other leaders of the union, submitted that TASCE had suffered untold hardship on account of neglect and poor funding under successive administrations. He noted that the present government had eased the tension and brought hope to the school with the payment of regular payment of staff bringing the implementation up to 75 percent. Lana who is also the Southwest Zonal Coordinator said the union believed in collective bargaining based on constructive engagement, mutual respect and great consideration for smooth-running of the system. He said, “There is a need to fashion out agreeable solutions to unfulfilled expectations on festering issues. We have developed certain well-thought-out ideas to put on the table during dialogue with the Governor towards addressing the liabilities inherited by his administration. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “We do not have only demands but we also have specific propositions that are sensitive to the financial constraints of government which could provide a win-win solution to the age-long challenges. We are earnestly calling for an audience with the governor to present these. “We acknowledged the progressive actions of the present management of TASCE led by the College Provost, Dr. Adeola Kiadese and Governing Council chaired by Prince Adeyemi Adefulu in developing the College and expanding its IGR potentials, the college may not have experienced the level of impoverishment it suffered. “We have written several letters and unfortunately none of the letters was honoured. We will still keep the lines open for the government to attend to us. We want to believe that our letters might have been lost in transit. We are using this avenue to amplify on the effort to meet with the governor for dialogue on TASCE issue.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity