The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has stated that the vandalisation of the rail track was the cause of the derailment of the train from Lagos heading to Kano on Saturday. According to a statement by Mahmood Yakub, “the Board and management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation wish to inform the general public, especially our valued passengers on board Lagos to Kano-bound Express passenger train derailment, involving two baggage vans, which occurred at kilometre 463-464 Bode Sadu- Jabba Section in Western District of the Corporation on Saturday, 26th February, 2022, though, without any causality, as a result of vandalisation of railway track. “In fact, the train has already arrived Kano, while our Team of Engineers are at the site to ensure restoration of the affected portion of the track as soon as possible.” The statement said “only last Monday, the Managing Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Engr. Fidet Okhiria held a Press Conference at the NRC headquarters Lagos to intimate the press, among other key operational issues, on the alarming rate at which critical infrastructures of the NRC, especially the track on both Narrow and Standard Gauge Railway Lines are being wantonly vandalised by unscrupulous elements, thwarting the efforts of the Federal Government Rehabilitation and Modernisation of the entire Railway system. “During the occasion, he enjoined the media to sensitise and enlighten the general public on the dangers associated with track vandalisation of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, which is now seriously compromising the safety of our critical infrastructures and passengers as well, by way of accidents” he stated. Okhiria emphasized that any culprit apprehended must surely face the full wrath of extant law of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, While the management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation highly sympathized with the passengers on board for the untold inconveniences this accident might have caused them. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.