Following the giant strides of the Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde in steering the ship the state into unprecedented development since he assumed office in 2019, hundreds of members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Saki East Local Government have endorsed the governor for a second term in office. This message, affirmed by all members of the party from the 11 wards, was delivered by all political office holders in the local government during a general meeting of the party held at Baptist Primary School, Ago-Amodu. Leading the team of political appointees were the Honorable Commissioner for Establishment and Training, Alhaji Siju Lawal; the Chairman, Saki East Local Government, Hon Mrs Rhamat Mosunmade Adeniran, Lawmaker representing ATISBO/Saki East state constituency, Honorable Rilwan Saminu Gbadamosi, former Chairman of the council, Alhaji Aliu Adetunji, Mr Femi Ogunyale, while the symbolic message in form of the party’s flag was received on behalf of the State party chairman by the party’s Oyo North senatorial Chairman, Honorable Yusuff Adebayo and the Special Assistant to Governor on Ifedapo constituency, Honorable Dr Lukman Adisa. Delivering the message, Alhaji Siju Lawal disclosed that Governor Makinde’s scintillating performance in general infrastructural development of the state has not gone unnoticed, hence, the resolve of the party in the local government to appeal to him and endorse him for another term in office to continue a good job. According to him: “We are gathered here today in unity as members of the PDP in all eleven wards of Saki East Local Government area to appreciate governor Makinde’s even development across all the zones of this state. “Governor Makinde did not hide his determination to sincerely develop this state immediately he came on board, that is why series of developmental projects in massive road constructions, rural development, focus on Agricultural development including the increase in the state internally generated revenue unlike never before has now become a cynosure of all eyes. “It is on this note that we have resolved to support him for another term of four years which we believe will spur him to do more.” In her address, the Chairperson, Saki East Local Government, Honourable Rhamat Adeniran, said: “We are proud to come out today to publicly declare that governor Seyi Makinde should run for the second term because his good works speak for him. From the state to the grassroots, there are scores of projects executed by Governor Makinde to benefit our people. With this, we are calling on him to endorse him for another term.” Receiving the flag, PDP Oyo North Senatorial Chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Adebayo, expressed appreciation to party members in Saki East Local Government for this initiative to call on Governor Makinde for his second term bid. Adebayo said: “Your message is highly appreciated and will be delivered to the people’s governor- His Excellency, Shi Makinde. This colourful and impactful decision of yours to endorse Governor is highly commendable because you have shown appreciation for his sterling performance as Governor of the state.” Other speakers on the occasion include Honorable Rilwan Gbadamosi, former chairman of Saki East Local Chairman, Alhaji Aliu Adetunji, senatorial Chairman, PDP Chairman, Saki East Local Government, Alhaji Mudashiru Balogun. Other dignitaries that attended the event include the national ex-officio, Chief Oluwakemi Olayiwola-Bello, Elder Debo Adejumobi, Chairman Saki West local government, Honourable Sharafadeen Omirinde, former commissioner for environment, Honorable Adam Folaranmi, Honorable Nike Arewa, among others. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity