As the warning strike embarked on by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) continues, the need for the convocation of an emergency education sector stakeholders meeting has been stressed. Reason for the convocation of the meeting is to proffer a lasting solution to the myriad of challenges militating against the smooth operation of the education sector of the country particularly the lingering strike actions that have retarded tertiary institutions. In the same vein, members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) have been appealed upon to listen to the government in the overall best interests of the Nigerian students. The call was made by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) during a press conference held on Sunday at the Secretariat of the Students Union Government (SUG) of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi. National Director of Administration and Strategy of NANS, Prince Mohammed Sani Hassan, who addressed the journalists lamented that “The university strike in Nigeria is becoming a norm with successive governments including the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari failing to meet the demands and the fulfilled the 2008 agreement signed by the Federal Government and the ASUU.” He added that “this strike has continued to hurt more, the students and their parents who laboured very hard and in the end have little in their pockets to take care of the needs of their respective children in Nigerian Universities.” Mohammed further said that “it is in the light of the above that, ASUU strike seems to be a festival in Nigeria that happens every year leaving the consequences directly on the students to bear.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE According to him, “it is an unarguable discussion that a four-year course now takes not less than 7 to 8 years for a Nigerian student who is battling tooth and nail to survive in the current economic realities.” “We, therefore, deem it fit and necessary as stakeholders in this struggle to address you on these lingering confrontations between members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities and the Federal Government to end this long feud that is keeping the Nigerian students away from their classrooms,” he stressed. He advised that “the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Education under the able supervision of Mallam Adamu Adamu and the Minister of Labour, Chris Ngige should ensure compliance to the earlier adopted agreement.” “The government and ASUU are stakeholders and at the same time, team players in this game that has caused this government its reputation in the education sector having been pro-ASUU in the past,” he added. The NANS Director said that “we are yet to come out from the negative effects of the similar action of last year as this strike is never expected to end soon. We all saw what happened last year when this kind of strike occurred where the Federal Government and ASUU ended it at a roundtable.” He stressed that “this strike has continued to affect greatly the chances of the less privileged to grow to the peak of their career because all the students currently at home are that of the downtrodden.” Mohammed said that “the ASUU leadership must call their members to order and let them know that there is an increasing number of Graduates sitting at home and considering the scarcely available employment opportunities should serve as a warning signal to the University lecturers.” “The government must know that Education is a right of every Nigerian child hence it is to be prioritized to secure the future of the nation amidst the increasing Insecurity,” he said. According to him, “illiteracy and increasing unemployment have been identified as the major factors that continue to traumatize Nigerians, then it becomes more necessary for Government to create Millions of investment in the Education Sector and ensure wealth creation through empowerment Programs.” Sani Mohammed concluded that “As stakeholders, we shall continue to be team players in Creating the best platform for Peace and Unity to strive in the nation through our stand in ensuring justice for Nigerian Students cannot be compromised.” He said that “The sad reality is that many lose out to serve their fatherland through the mandatory National Youths Service Scheme because of this lingering strikes that are on the verge of crippling our education system.” He then appreciated the efforts of Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala A Mohammed, and the security agencies for their efforts in ensuring peace in Bauchi state. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity