The Gregory University, Uturu, Abia State says the university has zero tolerance to immorality and negative vices. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Augustine Uwakwe disclosed this Saturday during the 10th matriculation ceremony, stating that the university had last year expelled two students for trying to rape a female student in a classroom and another two last month for trying “over cultism and drug abuse” the university. “The university has zero-tolerance and you are to eschew all vices among which include but are not limited to cultism, gambling, drug abuse and substance imbibition, the depravity of any form, among others. “You will be readily and summarily expelled should you decide to test the resolve of the Leadership of this university on any act of immorality as we uphold a zero-tolerance policy in that regard,” he said He reminded matriculating students that the university has zero tolerance for bad behaviours, adding that anyone caught will be expelled, his name and picture displayed and forwarded to other universities so that he or she will not any admission elsewhere. He disclosed that the university has concluded plans to establish institutes for Aviation studies and Transport studies, stating that the university has already written to the relevant federal authorities and ministries on that. The VC further said the university has over 6 affiliate universities overseas and is the fastest growing university in Nigeria which also has a Media Center which houses GUU Radio 90.9FM and Gregory TV with an ultra-modern amphitheatre. In his speech, the Visitor to the university and governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu expressed his excitement over the training of scholars which he said marked the university out among others, especially in the areas of entrepreneurial studies and practical training. Represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof. Anthony C B Agbazuere, Ikpeazu advised the students to take their studies seriously as a way of becoming good citizens and being useful to themselves and their parents. The university is 10 years old having been established on 12 February 2012. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  We have zero-tolerance to immorality, will discipline erring students  We have zero-tolerance to immorality, will discipline erring students  We have zero-tolerance to immorality, will discipline erring students  We have zero-tolerance to immorality, will discipline erring students