A device suspected to be an Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) exploded in a building at Kabala West, a suburb in Kaduna metropolis on Sunday night. Findings gathered that the explosion occurred around 9.45 pm but news surrounding the explosion is still very scanty as at the time of filing the report. However, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Muhammad Jalige, confirmed the incident but was quick to add that there was no casualty. According to the police image maker preliminary investigations shows that there were no occupants in the building at the time of the explosion. “The explosion is suspected to be IED, there is no casualty recorded in the incident. There was nobody in the building when it exploded. It happened Sunday night around 21:45pm. “The anti-bomb squad has been deployed to the scene to analyse the particles we got from the place.” Meanwhile, at the time of filing the report, people are going about carrying out their activities as if nothing had occurred. A resident of the area, Musa Samuel, told Tribune Online that “the sound of the explosion was so heavy that we have to scamper for safety. “But later, we didn’t hear any noise again and we returned to our houses.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Explosion rocks Kaduna suburb Explosion rocks Kaduna suburb ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.