The Senate, on Wednesday, passed a bill to amend the Orthopaedic Hospitals Management Board Act to provide for the establishment of two Federal Orthopaedic hospitals in Kwara and Osun States. Also amended was the University Teaching Hospitals Act LFN 2004 to provide for the establishment of two Federal University Teaching Hospitals in Akure and Gusau, respectively. The bills were tagged “University Teaching Hospitals (Reconstitution of Boards, etc) Act, 2004 (Amendment) Bill, 2022; and “Orthopaedic Hospitals Management Board Act, Cap O10 LFN 2004 (Amendment) Bill, 2022.” The passage of the bills followed the consideration of two separate reports by the Committee on Health (Secondary and Tertiary). In his presentation, the Chairman of the Committee, Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe (APC, Kwara Central), said the bill to amend the Orthopaedic Hospitals Management Board Act was to provide for the establishment of the Orthopaedic Hospital Patigi; and Orthopaedic Hospital Obokun, Osun State. “The Federal Orthopaedic Hospital when established in Patigi, Kwara State and Obokun, Osun State will provide services such as diagnosis and treatment from traumatic events such as accidental falls, car accidents, sports injuries and other emergencies. “It will also bring healthcare closer to the people at reduced costs compared to private hospitals and drastically reduce health tourism. “In addition to the above advantages, it will deter patients from patronising traditional bonesetters who enjoy patronage in the absence of a specialised orthopaedic hospital. “The Orthopaedic hospital will be affiliated to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Kwara State and the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State to provide specialised orthopaedic treatment and medical services,” Oloriegbe said. The lawmaker, in his second presentation, explained that the amendment to the University Teaching Hospitals Act sought to provide for the establishment of the Federal University of Technology Akure Teaching Hospital; and the Federal University Gusau Teaching Hospital. According to him, the amendment bill also seeks to amend the First Schedule to the Principal Act to include and give legal backing to the Federal University Teaching Hospital, Lafia. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Ambitious appointed public officials  Ambitious appointed public officials ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity