Gupshup, the global leader in conversational engagement, has announced the acquisition of Knowlarity Communications. Knowlarity is a global leader in cloud communications, offering cloud telephony, contact center automation, AI-powered voice assistants and speech analytics solutions to over 6,000 customers across 65 countries. According to a source, the acquisition complements Gupshup’s industry-leading Conversational Messaging suite and establishes Gupshup as the leader in voice & video communications as well. Knowlarity operates in the voice-based Conversational Engagement market, which is poised to transform contact-centres, IVR systems, and smart voice systems, which may be accounting for a Total Addressable Market (TAM) of nearly $18 billion by 2024. “As business-to-consumer engagement becomes conversational, Gupshup is busy enabling more ways for businesses to deliver rich experiences. With the addition of Knowlarity’s products, businesses will now be able to build seamless conversational experiences across both messaging and voice channels,” a statement from the company stated. “As business-to-consumer engagement becomes conversational, Gupshup is busy enabling more ways for businesses to deliver rich experiences. With the addition of Knowlarity’s products, businesses will now be able to build seamless conversational experiences across both messaging and voice channels,” said Mr Beerud Sheth, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Gupshup. “Knowlarity is the clear market leader in voice – their comprehensive product suite spanning cloud telephony and contact center automation, along with excellent customer traction will further enhance Gupshup’s leadership position. I’m excited to welcome the Knowlarity team to the Gupshup family. “We at Knowlarity are excited to be a part of Gupshup. This will lead to richer experiences for our existing and future customers along with product enrichment and significant geographic expansion opportunities. Our customer-centric, innovation-focused cultures are perfectly aligned and we see significant synergies and new products emerging from the combination of two great teams,” said Mr Yatish Mehrotra, Chief Executive Officer, Knowlarity. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details