Some gunmen suspected to be armed bandits on Friday met their waterloo during an attack on Shohon-Rami village in Mashegu Local Government Area of Niger State, as a Police Tactical team attached to the state Police Command in conjunction with some Vigilante group repelled the bandits’ attack on the community and neutralised scores of them during a gun duel. However, three villagers were reported to have been killed earlier by the bandits before the police moved into the village. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the state police command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, confirmed this incident in Minna on Friday in a press statement he issued and made available to the newsmen in Minna, saying, “the  two bodies of the bandits were also recovered by the police.” He added, “On 25/02/2022 at about 10:15hrs, information was received that armed bandits who were suspected to be terrorists attacked Sohon-Rami village, Mashegu LGA and killed three persons. The statement continued that the Police tactical teams and vigilante members were immediately mobilized to the area. The PPRO noted that while the bandits were on their way trying to escape before they were engaged in a fierce gun battle by the tactical teams and scores of the bandits were neutralised and others escaped with gunshot injuries into the forest. He said the state Commissioner of Police, CP Monday Bala Kuryas, has commended the gallantry performance of the tactical teams and vigilante members in the gun battle. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity