Multi-versed Nigerian talent, Dice Ailes unveils his brand-new single ‘Hold Me’ featuring Tiwa Savage, out 23rd February via TMM Entertainment / Black Butter Records. His first single release of 2022, ‘Hold Me’ sees Dice Ailes step away from his familiar theme of money and the upscale lifestyle to croon sensual infatuation on the musical that enthuses listening ears with its Caribbean melodies, bold swanky vocals from Dice Ailes and the Contralto harmonies of Tiwa Savage who makes a perfect collaborator on the R&B number that’s reminiscent of the 90s vibe. This new release is a welcome development for fans of Dice Ailes who have anticipated new music since his last official drop, Money Dance in 2021, which interestingly has now garnered over a million worldwide streams. Recall that he also launched his entertainment imprint, TMM (The Money Mob) same year and at the end of summer, collaborated on one of Naija’s biggest viral sounds of 2021, Focus to drop a remix. He then began the new year with a first leg of promo appearances in the city of Nairobi, Kenya as part of activities in buildup to a forthcoming EP project, which he already revealed to be a collection of classics. ‘Hold Me’ is the first feature from the forthcoming EP out next month and the track stars Tiwa Savage whose substance is beyond her insanely sweet vocals. There’s the armory she embodies as a self-acclaimed African bad girl and Naija Queen of Afrobeats, adding that with the stanship she commands from a cult following of millions of Savage soldiers on and off social media. The kickass pair of Dice and Tiwa would be better imagined in the visual accompaniment, which has been shot and set for premiere at a later date. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers…  Dices Ailes, Tiwa Savage team up on classic new song ‘Hold me’  Dices Ailes, Tiwa Savage team up on classic new song ‘Hold me’  Dices Ailes, Tiwa Savage team up on classic new song ‘Hold me’  Dices Ailes, Tiwa Savage team up on classic new song ‘Hold me’ ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity