Eight northerners in the Nnewi Correctional Centre in Anambra State have regained their freedom, Tribune Online gathered. They were remanded for about two years now because of their inability to pay their fines as ordered by a court. Their freedom was facilitated by a Catholic priest, Rev. Fr. Humphrey Nwajoko of the ‘Every day with Jesus and Mary Adoration Ministry Holy Trinity Parish Catholic Diocese of Nnewi who offset their fines. The inmates include; Sani Musa, Hammandada Adamu, Suleman Kabiru, Paul Martins, Jonathan Haruna, Emmanuel Magaji, Salihu Ali and Ibrahim James. Fr. Nwajoko said he was moved with the passion to assist the inmates when some officials of the Correctional Centre approached him for assistance. He said, “When the wardens approached me that there were some inmates who have been imprisoned for close to two years due to their inability to pay the fines ordered by the court and that they neither have anybody to help them nor relations to contact; I was touched remembering the words of Jesus, I was in prison you visited me, so I moved into action. It was not really easy for me to carry the responsibility as times are very hard but I believe that for God to have brought it to my knowledge through the prison wardens I had no choice.” the Rev. Father explained. Nwajoko pointed out that he had earlier assisted some freed inmates with phones when they were set free by the Chief Judge of Anambra State. “There was this freed inmate we had to buy a motorcycle for to assist him in earning. It is not that we have plenty of money to throw around but the joy of bringing smiles to the faces of these neglected persons is enough to spur us on. We believe that in doing this, we are saving souls and bringing them closer to God through the ministry ‘Every day with Jesus and Mary.” he said. Rev Fr Nwanjoko who said he had been providing for the basic needs of the inmates on regular basis, promised to do more so as to alleviate their suffering. He urged the freed inmates to be true followers of Christ and serve Jesus with all their hearts and soul and that they should avoid anything that may make them return to the Correctional Centre. The officer in charge of the Nnewi Correctional Centre, Mrs Uche Okeke said the eight freed inmates were part of the 25 jobbers arrested by law enforcement agents and were brought to the centre. She said: “We talked to them and tried to get their relations to pay the fines ordered by the court but nobody came for them. So we had to run to Rev Fr Nwajoko who has always assisted us in times of need.” she said. A spokesperson for the freed inmates, Mr Jonathan Haruna from Plateau State thanked the priest for his God-send intervention. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity