Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has said that there should be no age barrier for anyone with aspiration of vying for Presidency in 2023, submitting that the nation’s youths are free to contest. Atiku stated this on Saturday, while fielding questions from journalists, shortly after a closed door meeting he had with former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, at his penthouse within the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Abeokuta. The former presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019, is yet to declare his intention to run for the 2023 presidential election. He was said to be on a nationwide consultations with those that mattered in the political scene of the country. Atiku said he was more than capable to become the country’s president come 2023 and fix the country. The former vice president said he was confident of running the race once again with the youths in the election. He said, “Let the youth compete now. It is a competition. It’s democracy.” The Waziri of Adamawa said he would declare his intention to run the race formally at a later date, while expressing confidence that he will win the party’s ticket. “Have I ever failed to get the ticket? I’m confident,” he said. Atiku equally visited the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, at his palace. He said he was in the palace to check on the monarch while in the state, while recalling that he started his career in the Nigeria Customs Service in Ogun State and also met his first wife in the state. He described Ogun as his home and promised to continue in identifying with the state, especially Abeokuta. Oba Gbadebo in his response urged Atiku to publicly declare his intention, having informed him privately of his presidential ambition before the chiefs and the people. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity