LEON USIGBE writes on the level of interest former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, has attracted since declaring his intention to vie for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Anyim Pius Anyim, former Senate President, is thrusting himself forward as perhaps the most active among the presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presently. Dele Momodu and Maxi Sam Ohuanbunwa are doing their utmost to convince those they consult about the seriousness of their presidential bids. Sokoto state governor and chair of the PDP Governors Forum, AminuTambuwal, has indicated his interest but has yet to kick-start any meaningful outward moves towards its realization. Former Kwara state governor and as well ex-Senate President, BukolaSaraki, is contemplating joining the race and has had meetings with different stakeholders to seek their support for his ambition under the main opposition party. But beyond little movements here and there, there has been a bit of eerie quietness in the PDP’s 2023 presidential race front. Even though his intention is an open secret, former Vice President Atiku is yet to formally make his case for the ticket. However, with his permission, groups are campaigning on his behalf, giving room for speculation as to whether he might want to consider stepping away from the arena because of the mounting desire for a young and vibrant Nigerian as the next president. Those who are canvassing for him also face the prospects of swimming against the tide not just over his advancement in age but also the vociferous agitation for the PDP to stick to its zoning principle. The dominant argument is that with President MuhammaduBuhari completing his two tenures of eight years as a northerner, the next president should logically be a southerner to ensure equity, fairness and the strengthening the country’s fragile unity. Atiku has pushed back on this agitation, at times, going down memory lane to remind listeners of his own perception of the ideas behind the formation of the former ruling party. He maintains that shutting out parts of the country in the search for a credible PDP candidate will deprived the party of the opportunity to select the best. Despite his northeast roots, his supporters see him as a rugged, determined, war-tested individual of means who presents the best chance for the PDP to defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) and regain power. However, his use of proxy rather than coming out in full force to articulate his plan for the race at this time has directed the spotlight on Anyim who, taking his destiny in his hands, has managed to extract the endorsement of President MuhammaduBuhari over his intention to be president. The Ebonyi state-born politician and former Secretary of Government of the Federation (SGF) organized an elaborate event in Abuja recently to mark his 61st birthday. It provided a gauge for how far he has come since openly signaling his intention to vie for the PDP presidential ticket. The main hall of the Abuja International Conference Center (AICC) could barely contain those who came to felicitate with him. They were not just drawn from all levels of society, but significantly, from across many political parties, suggesting the cross-party impact his aspiration. President Buhari graced the occasion through the current SGF, Boss Mustapha, despite not been known to have any affinity with people in Anyim’s party. As it was revealed later, both men have shared a personal relationship over time even as they belong to opposite sides of the political divide. Former president Goodluck Jonathan was there in person just as his Vice President, NamadiSambo, and many other prominent politicians from all over the country. Buhari gave his nod to Anyim’s aspiration, telling him that as someone who had been SGF, he can occupy any higher political office. The President lauded his humble qualities and insistence on a one-year term for political office holders, saying that “he consistently displayed uncommon and discerning humility,” which he said Anyim exhibited in good measure as Senate President. According to Buhari, after a period that witnessed quick impeachment of two Senate presidents, Ayim’s maturity and courage ushered in an era of stability in the red chamber. Buhari said: “Senator Pius Ayim is a patriotic Nigerian who always puts his nation first and he is one of stabilizing voices we have today in the politics of our country. This, he has demonstrated in several times, but the one that stands out and still echoes with me was his insistence that elected officers should always stay a single term and he kept to his word by not seeking for re-election to the Senate, after the expiration of his first term as Senator and Senate President in 2003. That many Nigerians cutting across various political divides are gathered here today to celebrate you, is a glowing testimony of your contributions to the growth of our nation and its political development.” Buhari further observed that the experiences garnered over the years by the former Senate President place him at a vantage position to seek higher political calling. Also speaking as chair of the occasion, former President Goodluck Jonathan described Ayim as a unique leader who never allowed the trappings of office to get into his head. The immediate past President observed that the caliber of people gathered at the venue to honor him was a testimony of the trust Nigerians reposed in Anyim years after leaving the office as SGF. “For you to have gathered these numbers as early as this time today means a lot,” Jonathan said. The former President revealed how he gave Anyim the SGF’s job because of his qualities even though he never anticipated it. “The first day I became President, Anyim Pius Anyim wanted to be chair of PDP and he came to me with a lot of dreams, and we spoke, but he was never the chair of PDP. When he became the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, he did not even come to me with a biscuit, but we found him worthy as a Nigerian that had experience in managing systems, managing issues and somebody who had friends across the country and when we were looking at the person. We wanted to be the Secretary to the Government. Of course, we wanted somebody from the South-East because PDP then normally made sure that every geo-political zone had one key office. Now, we do not have enough people. So, we do not have that,” Jonathan added. “And so, we zoned the Secretary to the Government to the South-East. We looked at our brothers and sisters, the characters, and they were very nice people. They had many competent people. But let me say that it is like the lot it fell on Anyim Pius Anyim and we made him the Secretary to the Government. And I do not regret committing him. He is a very hard-working young man, committed to serving this nation and I believe if he has the opportunity to serve more, he can do better.” Also speaking, former Vice President, NamadiSambo, observed that as Senate President, Ayim served the nation with uncommon patriotism, sacrifice, decorum, and high sense of respect, noting how he understood the diversity of the country that is its strength and demonstrated the qualities of a team player. “With these instances, I have no doubt in my mind that he can be trusted with higher political responsibility,” Sambo added: Buoyed by the possibility of the PDP sticking to the south in the end, Anyim is throttling on with confidence towards realizing his ambition with a pledge to commit the rest of his life to the pursuit of peace and progress in the country. As he is urging citizens to remain similarly committed to building peace irrespective of tribe, religion of party affiliation, he has declared that “Nigeria must rise again. We must live in peace and safety of lives and property.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity