Armed men suspected to be members of a secret cult on Saturday invaded a burial ceremony in Ebenebe community in Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State, killing about 16 persons. Our correspondent gathered that it was the burial of a suspected leader of a cultist named Ozo, and while the corpse of Ozo was lying in state in his compound, some suspected cultists arrived the scene and sacked mourners, shooting at mourners. A source who disclosed this to Tribune Online said: “My sister was supposed to be at the burial. She and her friends had already prepared to leave Awka for Ebenebe, but the vehicle they booked to take them disappointed them.” “She and her friends were so unhappy, and they decided to go in search of another vehicle that can take them. It was in the course of going to the burial that they received a phone call that everybody at the burial had been dispersed by some gunmen. “She also got a video from the scene, which showed several persons lying in the pool of their own blood dead, while the corpse was desecrated, with its coffin lying far apart,the corpse.” A video was seen with members of the community wailing, while corpses littered the burial compound. Reacting, the Anambra State Police command has confirmed the incident, saying that it was a case of cult rivalry. According to the Command’s spokeperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, he said: “Yes, this morning, there was an incident at Ebenebe. A burial was going on, when some people suspected to be cultists invaded the area and started shooting. “I do not have details of casualties now, but I will keep you informed once the picture becomes clear. “For now, the State Commissioner of police, CP Echeng Echeng has despatched tactical squads comprising of various units to the area to maintain calm,” he stated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report.… ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity