Following the ongoing 2021 Police recruitment for Delta State indigenes which commenced on February 1, 2022, at Cenotaph Asaba, the Delta Police Command has screened a total of 278 applicants so far from 15 local government areas in the state. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, on Sunday. He gave the rundown according to local government areas as follows: Aniocha North – 11, Aniocha South – 9, Bomadi – 20, Burutu – 24, Ethiope East – 22, Ethiope West – 23, Ika North East – 39, Ika South – 31 and Isoko North – 17. Others are Isoko South – 13, Ndokwa East – 16, Ndokwa West – 31, Okpe – 11, Oshimili North – 3 and Oshimili South – 8. Edafe further disclosed that the exercise would continue on Monday, February 7, 2022 for Patani, Sapele and Udu local government areas. According to him, applicants from other local government areas, who missed their scheduled date can also come for their screening. He quoted the Commissioner of Police, Delta State, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, as wishing all the applicants success during the exercise and urged other applicants, who are yet to appear for their physical/credential screening, to take advantage of the ongoing screening exercise. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details