No fewer than five people were reportedly shot and killed in separate attacks in Gwer West local government area of Benue State by suspected herders. Local from the council area told our correspondent that four people were killed while few others were injured in an attack at Tse Udeghe, Mabapa council ward of the local government. Several thatched houses were also reported to have been set ablaze by suspected herders who invaded the community around 4:30 pm on Thursday. Saturday Tribune also learnt that some suspected herders who blocked Makurdi/Naka highway around 7:00 pm of the same day shot at a moving vehicle leading to the death of a female passenger. The chairman of the local government, Mrs Grace Igbabon who confirmed the two attacks lamented the constant attacks by herdsmen on communities in the council area without provocation. She said, “the incident happened around evening on Thursday, we were at the venue where we were donating motorcycles to security operatives when the report came to me that herdsmen were attacking Mabapa council ward. “Four people were killed in the community including a man and his son. “Unfortunately, some herders also blocked Makurdi/Naka highway and shot at a moving vehicle, a lady was said to have been hit by bullets from these herders. Mrs Igbabon said that the council on Thursday donated ten (10)motorcycles to the security operatives in the local government to facilitate the movement of security men in fighting herdsmen militia in the council area. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Catherine Anene said she was yet to receive such a report. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Suspected herders kill five  Suspected herders kill five Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Suspected herders kill five  Suspected herders kill five