The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr Baba Usmar Alkali, on Wednesday, arraigned three suspects and two companies before a Federal High Court, Awka, Anambra State, on charges bordering on conspiracy and fraud. Those arraigned before the court presided over by Justice Nnamdi Dimba are Chibueze Ojeh, Obinna Nwosu, Emeka Njoku and two companies; Castle Equipment & Logistic LTD and United Bank for Africa (UBA). Tribune Online gathered that the suspects and the two companies were arraigned on two counts charges bordering on conspiracy to defraud and obtaining money under false pretence. The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), in the amended charge, marked No. FHC/AWK/C/25/2020, alleged that the three suspects and the two companies, Castle Equipment & Logistic LTD and United Bank for Africa (UBA), had on between 3rd April 2013 and 31st June 2013 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable court while acting in concert and with intent to defraud Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa MD/CEO of Minna Investment Limited conspired together to commit felony to wit: obtaining money to the sum of N242,015,000,00 (Two hundred and Forty-two Million, Fifteen thousand Naira) Equivalent to $950,000.00 (Nine Hundred and Fifty Thousand United States Dollars) from him. The IGP also alleged that the three after fraudulently receiving the money from the victim converted the same to their personal use. The offences according to the prosecutor, Augustin Oboh are contrary to sections 8(a) and 1(3) and punishable under sections 1(3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act, 2006. The charges read in part: “that you Chibueze Ojeh ‘m’ 40years MD/CEO of Castle Equipment & Logistics Limited of Lekki County Homes, Westend Estate Road 4, House 4 Lekki Lagos state, Obinna Nwosu ‘m’ 45years of No. 1 Shofidiya Close, Adegoke Estate, Masha Roundabout Sururere Lagos, Emeka Njoku `r n’ 4lyears former marketer with United Bank for Africa, of No. 3 Azikwe Road Port Harcourt, Castle Equipment & Logistics Ltd and United Bank for Africa between 3rd April 2013 and 31st June 2013 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable court while acting in concert and with intent to defraud Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa MD/CEO of Minna Investment Limited conspired together to commit felony to wit: obtaining money by false pretence and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 8(a) of the Advance fee fraud and other related offences Act 2006. “Count3; That you Chibueze Ojeh `rn’ 40years MD/CEO of Castle Equipment & Logistics Limited of Lekki County Homes, Westend Estate Road 4, House 4 Lekki Lagos state, Obinna Nwosu 45years of No. 1 Shofidiya Close, Adegoke Estate, Masha Roundabout Sururere Lagos, Emeka Njoku 4lyears former marketer with United Bank for Africa, of No. 3 Azikiwe Road Port Harcourt, Castle Equipment & Logistics Ltd and United Bank for Africa between 3rd April 2013 and 31st June 2013 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable court while acting in concert and with intent to defraud Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa MD/CEO of Vinna Investment Limited deceitfully induced Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa through an agreement and collected the sum of N242,015,000,00 (Two hundred and Forty two Million, Fifteen thousand Naira) Equivalent to(Nine hundred and Fifty Thousand United States Dollars), from him on the pretence that you will transfer the Dollars to his customers in Italy but having collected the money you converted same to your use, you thereby committed an offence contrary to section 1(1) and punishable under section 1(3) of the Advance fee fraud and other related offences Act 2006. “Count 4 That you Emeka Njoku ‘m’ 41 years, former marketer with United Bank for Africa, of No. 3 Azikiwe Road Port Harcourt and United Bank for Africa, between 3rd April 2013 and 31st June 2013 in Lagos and Aba, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable court while acting in concert and with intent to defraud Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa MD/CEO of Vinna Investment Limited aids and abets Chibueze Ojeh ‘m’ 40years MD/CEO of Castle Equipment & Logistics Limited of Lekki County Homes, Westend Estate road 4 House 4 Lekki Lagos state and Castle Equipment & Logistics Limited to commit of the offence-of obtaining money by false pretence when you induced Chief Nnamdi Ezenwa to transfer the sum of N242,015,000,00 (Two hundred and Forty two Million, Fifteen thousand Naira) Equivalent to $950,000.00 (Nine Hundred and Fifty Thousand United States Dollars) from his UBA account in Aba branch to the UBA-account of Castle Equipment & Logistics Limited in Lagos Which was withdrawn by Chibueze Ojeh, you thereby committed an offence contrary to section to section 8(a) and punishable under section 1(3) of the Advance fee fraud and other related offences Act 2006.” All the accused however pleaded not guilty to the charge. Following the pleas of the accused persons, their lawyers, Nduka Ijeh, Mr Enoch Aguana and N.C Odumata pleaded with the court to admit bail to his clients in the most liberal term. The presiding judge, Justice Nnamdi Dimba, after listening to the submissions of both parties, adjourned till March 16, 2022, for further hearing. The judge however ordered that the accused persons be remanded in prisons custody. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details