Three months after it kick-started its e-registration exercise, close to 500,000 new members have registered with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, the state chairman, Dr Tony Aziegbemi, has disclosed. Buoyed by what he insisted is a successful registration exercise, Aziegbemi who spoke weekend in Benin said that the fortunes of the party were very bright. He said that none of the winning governorship candidates of any of the parties has been able to score 300,000 votes since the creation of the state. The party chairman said that with a total figure of 479,000 members which was recorded a few days ago, the PDP was poised to hit the 500,000 mark in Edo State. Aziegbemi said: “I think we are doing well. We are getting close to having close to 500,000 members in our e-registration exercise going on. We have 479,000 a few days ago. Before now, we didn’t have a figure of what we were. These new members are biometrically captured and so it is not a question of writing fictitious names. We have their pictures, data, phone numbers and home addresses. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “In all the governorship elections held in Edo State, nobody has got up to 300,000 votes to win but we already have close to 500,000, so you expect that anybody that picks up a ticket in any political party will lose the election. Once we unleash this number on the election day, you can imagine what difference it will make.” Against the backdrop of these fantastic figures, the Edo PDP boss however called on the feuding factions to bury the hatchet and stay united. He said that it was a thing of joy to note that the ordinary Edo person is with the party, assuring that the party will always take the welfare and concern of the ordinary Edo person very seriously. Aziegbemi sounded optimistic: “If you have that figure, I am sure you will be optimistic. We are: not taking the belief and feelings of the ordinary man in the street for granted. We have always told Edo people that it is their welfare and concern that is our concern and not just promising and not doing what we are supposed to do.” ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity