A Nigerian charitable and humanitarian organisation, National Association of Seadogs (NAS) has condemned in its entirety bullying of any form even as it urged the Federal Government to take actions that can eliminate the scourge to the barest minimum. The association’s chairman of the association in Asaba, Delta State, Engineer Emeka Okolie made the condemnation while presenting cartons of English and Mathematics books to the junior students of Adaigbo mixed secondary school, Ogwashi Uku in Aniocha South Council Area, recently. The donation of the books, according to the chairman, was to commemorate the International Day of Education. Engineer Okolie said bullying had been a serious impediment to education and as such, governments at all levels should be prompt in dealing with the ugly trend. He charged victims of bullying to speak up so as to avoid casualty of any sort. The chairman admonished the students of the school to take their studies seriously and always be mindful that they are the leaders of tomorrow. The Asaba branch of the association, as part of its social responsibility,  had in November 2021 installed marker board at Imobi Secondary School Agbor. It had also commissioned a borehole at Azagba Ogwashi while it also carried out diabetes and blood test at Okpanam. Receiving the books, the principal of the school, Mrs Joy Nwagbo, commended the association for the donation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details