GENERAL Manager, Ogun State Housing Corporation (OGSHC), Wale Ojo, has revealed that the proposed 2,500 low-cost housing units in the state will be completed using direct labour and local contents. This, he said, follows the directive of Governor Dapo Abiodun, who ordered the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to always consider local contents and direct labour in any of capital projects undertaken by the state government. He quoted the governor as saying that such would help to reduce the cost of governance and create more value in the public service and against the backdrop of the dwindling revenue and economic realities in the country. Ojo, who stated this during an in-house refresher training organised against the Challenges of the 21st Century Real Estate Opportunities in Abeokuta, last Thursday, added that the 2,500 housing units will be replicated in all the three senatorial districts of the state. He noted that by the end of the year, a lot of achievements would have been recorded regarding the construction of the housing projects. “We have come to leverage on the capacity in-house, this is a housing agency. The capacity here is huge if you get contracted in this type of project that is going to add to the cost even with what we have done. “The houses are coming below their cost of production courtesy of His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun’s directive on direct labour and local content is the best option for an affordable housing delivery of this magnitude. As an organisation that has a goal of affordable housing, we cannot afford to continue to do things the same way and expect different results. “We have been having success in the past years but that is not enough for us. The management and board sat down to look at the view of new trends of real estate development in the country and all over the world. Competitors are growing everyday and the competition is becoming so pronounced.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’ With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details