Over 50 heritage sites across the ancient city of Ile-Ife said to have been renovated by Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, to revive cultural tourism in the cradle of the Yorubas. The spokesperson of the monarch, Otunba Moses Olafare, dropped the hint at a press conference held at Ooni’s Palace in preparation for the commencement of the 2022 annual “Aje festival” in the town. He said explained that the renovation was to protect Yoruba heritage and at the same time to provide jobs for school leavers including other idling youths in the society. The traditional ruler who hinted that the redefinition of Aje festival is to allow for cross fertilisation of ideas with a view to project the cultural event to the whole world, remarked that the festival is aimed at mixing tradition with technology with a view to attracting young entrepreneurs in the tourism sector. “The essence of introducing summit to this year’s festival is to allow for fresh ideas on making the festival a global event, while the teeming youth population is given a sense of belonging in the event. “The summit will be looking at different sectors including health, culture, education, technology among others. “His Imperial Majesty, has since his ascension of the throne, dedicated time and resources to the development of tourism. He has renovated over 50 heritage sites in Ile-Ife to revive cultural tourism. “Parts of the reason is to ensure that our youths are gainfully employed through the sector, since, many nations of the depend, largely on tourism for survival, it is Kabiyesi’s believe that we can replicate same feat here too,” he concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘Officials initially offered to help but when the number of able-bodied citizens at the centre increased, they left us unattended to’
With the imminent disconnection of the SIM cards of Nigerian phone users who failed to enroll for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration, This report unearths the unsavoury treatment of persons with disabilities at NIMC enrolment centres in the six South-West states which is in disobedience of the provisions of the Disabilities Act and other laws. Court Awards Nnamdi Kanu N1 Billion Over Invasion Of His Home By Military, Asks FG To Apologise
Justice Benson Anya of the Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia on Wednesday awarded the sum of N1 billion to the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, over the 2017 invasion of his Afara Ukwu home by the military. Why Ogun Tops List Of ‘Yahoo Boys’ In Nigeria ― Governor Abiodun
The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the presence of many educational institutions in the state was one of the factors why the state tops the list of internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘Yahoo boys’ in the country. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity