Minister of Finance, Dr Zainab Ahmed has stated that the interest of Nigerians in whistleblower policy is nosediving. Ahmed, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary (Finance), Alhaji Shehu Shinkafi stated that this is in dissonance with the inception of the policy where Nigerians volunteered numerous actionable information. She said this at the second Zonal Conference on the Whistle Blower policy in Nigeria held in Lagos, Southwest Zone. The Minister explained that information from such policy has led to the recovery of cash and non-cash assets, including the clean-up of the IPPIS. “​Interest on the implementation of the policy began to nose dive unlike when it started where there was widespread of enthusiasm on the part of Nigerians as they volunteered numerous actionable information. “Such information or tips were usually referred to the EFCC, ICPC, NFIU or DSS for painstaking investigation. “Accordingly, there were recoveries both in cash and non-cash assets. The policy also help in the cleaning up of the integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS). Similarly, funds maintained outside the Treasury Single Account (TSA) without authorization by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government were identified and moved back to the Treasury. She, therefore, stated that this nosediving interest prompted the realization of the stakeholders that there was apparent confusion in the minds of the Public on several issues. Ahmed explained that most Citizens were not aware of the existence of the policy, not to talk about its Key Objectives. She added that the workings or operational modalities of the implementation of the policy were generally misunderstood. “It was at this point that the Key Stakeholders realized that there was apparent confusion in the minds of the Public on several issues. “For instance, it was discovered that most Citizens were not aware of the existence of the policy, not to talk about its Key Objectives. Furthermore, the workings or operational modalities of the implementation of the policy were generally misunderstood.” She said. Speaking also, The Commissioner for Finance, Dr. Rabiu Olowo said Nigerians must deliberately protect whistleblowers by enacting laws through the National Assembly, adding that religious superstitious belief must be changed. Rabiu explained that Nigerians would address the issue of poverty if everyone is committed to see and say. He also posited that financial incentives or whistleblowers is a good way to encourage potential whistleblowers to speak up, advocating that the awareness should continue. ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity