Justice R. O. Olukolu of a Lagos State High Court sitting in Osborne Foreshore Estate, Ikoyi, has directed banks to freeze the accounts of Mr Clement Mokedi, ARC Curve Ltd, Gboyega Adewuyi, M&N Properties Ltd and Mr Uche Manu and restrained them from accessing funds in their accounts pending the hearing and determination of a Motion on Notice for Mareva Injunction. The order of the court was sequel to an ex-parte application in a suit delineated LD/602CM/2022, filed by Mr Gbenga Ajala of Ravins Brook Deliveries, acting as attorney for Mr Kehinde Bolodeoku. The court further directed the banks to stop utilising, accessing and dissipating funds and proceeds from the purported sale of Mr Kehinde Bolodeoku’s Apartment at Unit 12 on the 5th Floor of the building situated at Plot 6, Block 3, Rock Drive, Off C&l Leasing Drives, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos State. The Mareva injunction also restrained the respondents, in the interim, from dealing with any and all of the monies standing to their credit in any accounts in the banks up to the amount Moving the application before the court, Gbenga Ajala had informed the court that the matter was a new one and an originating motion on notice has been brought before the court, adding that due to the peculiarity and urgency of the case, a Motion Exparte has been filed. According to him, the respondents had diverted the funds meant for the construction of the five units of three bedrooms flats at Plot 6, Block 3, Rock Drive, Off C&l Leasing Drives, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos State. The court asked when the property was sold and was informed that the notice of the sale of the property was in January 2022. The court then granted the reliefs being sought which include an order of Mareva Injunction directing/mandating Zenith Bank Plc to immediately freeze the first respondent’s account number 1006335486 and restrict any withdrawals from the said account, pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Motion on Notice in the suit. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE It also granted an order of Mareva Injunction directing Guaranty Trust Bank Ltd to immediately freeze the first respondent’s account number 0138093995 and restrict any withdrawal from the said account, pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Motion on Notice in the suit. The court further an order mandating Zenith Bank Plc to immediately freeze the second respondent’s account number 1016232197 and restrict any withdrawals from the said account, pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Motion on Notice in the suit as well as an order directing the bank to immediately freeze the fourth respondent’s account number 1016528081 and restrict any withdrawals from the said account, pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Motion on Notice in the suit. It also ordered Guaranty Trust Bank Ltd to immediately freeze the fifth respondent’s account number 0138093995 and restrict any withdrawals from the said account, pending the hearing and determination of the Originating Motion on Notice in the suit. The court however refused to grant the third relief on the ground that the said property, having been sold, the court can no longer restrain the selling or disposal of same as the court does not grant an order in vacuo. Similarly, the court also refused to grant the fourth relief because it specifically speaks to the matter to be dealt with in the substantive suit and adjourned the matter till March 16, 2022, for report of service.  ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity