The Nigeria Police, Kano command said it is investigating the management of Alibert Furniture over the fire incident at its Kano showroom that destroyed million furniture and other valuable property last December. The command said the investigation follows the receipt of a petition forwarded to it accusing Alibert Furniture of mischievously setting ablaze the showroom. The formal complaint was written by the landlord of No 5c Muritala Muhammad Way Kano, Abdulhadi Rabiu, through his lawyers, A S Yusuf Associates. In the complaint, Rabiu alleged that Alibert Furniture which occupies the building as a commercial tenant conspired to set the property ablaze, adding that the fire was caused by faulty electrical gadgets installed within the premises. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE This was disclosed through a statement issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Police-in-charge of criminal investigation, DCP Muhammad Abba Umar, with reference number CR: 3000/KSX/D6/Vol8/74 which was made available to our reporter. According to a letter dated January 27, 2022, the police also asked the Managing Director of Alibert Products Nigeria limited to report to the officer in charge of legal/prosecution at the command on February 7. It would be recalled that the management attributed the incident to the Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO)’s transformer in the area, a claim that KEDCO management refuted. But Rabiu informed the police that the incident was planned and executed by some persons commissioned with the aim to achieve criminally intended motives that are bothering on indemnity claims. The company under investigations through formal reply dated January 27, 2022, addressed to the commissioner of police, however, dismissed all the allegations contained in the petition. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details