Patience Ikojo, a winner of the Vantage Migration all expenses trip paid, has declared that she would not forget her experience in Zanzibar in a hurry. The graduate of Kogi State, won an all-expense paid trip sponsored my Vantage Migration to Zanzibar, Tanzania. This travel contest is Vantage Migration’s social entrepreneurship, which is aimed towards giving anyone a flight experience and international exposure. Speaking with her in an interview about her win, she says “So many contestants came out to participate including me, it was a tough one but I was crowned the lucky winner. I started looking out for my trip with all excitement the moment the winner was called out.” According to the graduate of physics while describing her trip, revealed that it was her first international trip and a reason why the memory will linger on. “I started looking out for my trip with all excitement the moment the winner was called out.It’s my first international trip and I was excited as I had to stop over at Aéroport de Lomé-GnassingbeLome, Togo, and then headed to Addis Ababa Bole International Airport, Ethiopia. I left Addis Ababa the following day and headed to Zanzibar. The memories I had during the trip are something I can’t let out of my mind so quickly. I had a tour on the water to the Prison Island where I was told the reason it’s called the prison Island. Also, I saw sizes of turtle-like I’ve not seen before with ages older than humans at the Changuu Island. I was also at the Kwale Island, there I saw the baobab tree and was told what it is believed to do, on that Island, and I ate lobster and fresh crayfish for the very first time.”  She said. “Have you ever seen a spice shop or spice market arranged so beautifully that you would almost want to buy even if it’s not needed, the packaging in different shapes of animal seen in the stone town spice market? Traveling is a beautiful adventure I always look out for, but having to travel from my country to another country is a different experience entirely and am grateful to Dr. Linda Iheme and Her vantage Migration team. There are so many things I learned from this trip, and it indeed opened my eyes to see that Africa is a beautiful place to explore, and until you are exposed to see things you would never see what you are missing. ” She added. Vantage Migration and Allied Consult is a body that has the interest and the wellbeing of young ones at heart. It is an educational consultancy that helps graduates accomplish their dreams of traveling abroad to study for their PGD, Masters, and PhDs. The team is headed by Dr. Linda Iheme, a Dentist based in Canada and an educational consultant. She and her team have taught hundreds on to relocate abroad all by themselves through the study route. The Vantage Migration team has been helping graduates gain scholarships and other fully funded opportunities abroad. Watch the free webinar: http://www.vantagemigration.ca/ to get started.