One of Nigeria’s renowned Islamic scholars, Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi has stressed the need for Nigerians to put sentiments aside and see to the success of the Nigeria Project. The Scholar was speaking in his residence in Bauchi when members of the Nigeria Agenda visited him ahead of their meeting in Bauchi saying that all the country need is unity, peace and togetherness. Dahiru Bauchi emphasized that without peace and unity no meaningful progress can be made, he, therefore, prayed for peace and unity so that one Nigeria will continue to exist. Earlier, one of the leaders of the Nigeria Agenda group, former Commissioner of information in Adamawa State, Ahmed Sajo said that the group was in Bauchi to discuss how Nigeria will move on as a united entity. Ahmed Sajo added that the main focus and concern of the group is to promote unity and peace ahead of the 2023 general elections so that things will happen to the country. He said that “We are here to let you know that we are in Bauchi State and our aim is to promote one Nigeria devoid of the ethno-religious divide. We want a Nigeria where people will appreciate one another without any acrimony”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…BBNaija 2020 housemate.  BBNaija 2020 housemate Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…BBNaija 2020 housemate. BBNaija 2020 housemate MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details