There was a sharp twist to the Enugu APC Chairmanship imbroglio as erstwhile Caretaker Committee Chairman of Enugu State All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday, resumed duties at the party’s office. Penultimate weekend Barr Ugochukwu Agballah had returned to Enugu to a tumultuous reception by his supporters after he was purportedly inaugurated alongside 33 other APC state chairmen in Abuja. He had proceeded from the Spanish Ibiam International Airport, Emene Enugu, to the state party secretariat located at GRA, Enugu. Former Caretaker Chairman, Dr Ben Nwoye, had cried foul and insisted that Agballah was never inaugurated or certificated as state chairman. He then sought to put records straight, and his reaction was predicated on the seeming inability of factions of the party in the state to harmonise which heralded the non-issuance of certificate to anyone by the National Leadership of the party. Nwoye said he’s in the office to continue administration of the party affairs and also take an on the spot assessment of the damages done in the office by some hoodlums on Friday. Nwoye in a chat with our correspondent said he has taken full control of their party’s office adding that the National Leadership authorised his actions as power abhors vacuum while assuring that all efforts are being made to ensure that the issues are resolved. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Enugu APC crisis deepens as Ben Nwoye resumes as caretaker chairman Enugu APC crisis deepens as Ben Nwoye resumes as caretaker chairman MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details