Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has described the insecurity problem in the country as man-made. He stated this on Wednesday when the Director-General of Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Mrs Cecilia Gayya who was represented by Goodluck Audu paid him a courtesy call in his office. Ortom accused the federal government of being complicit because of the kid gloves it has been handling the situation. He called on Nigerians to rise up and call on the federal government to do the needful to curtail the activities of the banditry before Nigeria drift into Afghanistan. According to him, “The problem of insecurity in Nigeria today is man-made. The present federal government is responsible because I took proactive steps right from 2016 when I came in and I saw this coming. “And today I am warning Nigerians, those who are sitting in their comfort zones, I want them to understand. Last week, one of my colleagues in the northeast raised an alarm that ISWAP has taken over part of his state and they are gradually coming in. They are deadly and they have the capacity to overrun this country based on what he saw. And I agree with him that if we don’t take time, it will happen. Like I raised alarm earlier about the challenges we have that if we don’t take time, one day, what happened in Afghanistan, God forbid, it will happen in Nigeria. “And it will appear to me that this leadership wants to surrender Nigeria to the insurgents,” he said. While commending ASCON for the training of civil servants in the state, Ortom said that workers remain in the engine room of any administration as it is responsible for the success and failure of any government. “ASCON has experts in the training of civil servants. Training like this promotes professionalism in the civil service. Human capacity government is very key. ASCON has agreed to come down to the state and train our civil servants. There is a lot of leakages and waste if workers are not adequately trained,” Governor Ortom posited. Speaking earlier, Mrs Gayya who was represented by Audu said over 500 civil servants in Benue State were being trained in human capacity development. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc . Click here for full details