A motorcyclist, identified as Sesan Atoyebi, was crushed to death by a hit-and-run driver on Sunday along Sango-Eleyele Road, Ibadan, Oyo State. The incident occurred at Gbaremu area along the road at about 2:30pm. Information gathered had it that the motorcyclist, who was facing Sango end, wanted to use a divide in median to turn towards Eleyele when the car driver, who was unaware of the sudden move, hit him, breaking his head, with his brains pouring out. The driver was said to have escaped the scene immediately without a trace, as the road was not busy at the time. Tribune Online further learnt that a police patrol vehicle passing by parked and called the attention of Sango Divisional Police Station, in which jurisdiction the incident occurred. The Motor Traffic Department (MTD) of the Division reportedly visited the scene, evacuated the body of the deceased and conveyed it to a mortuary. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FALSE! Yoruba Not An Official Language In Brazil Claim: A national newspaper and multiple online platforms claim Brazil has adopted Yoruba as its official language and that the language would be included in primary and secondary schools curriculum. Verdict: The claim is false. The content of the article published by these online platforms is not new; it has been recirculated several times and has been debunked. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus.Hit-and-run driver kills motorcyclist in Ibadan Hit-and-run driver kills motorcyclist in Ibadan