Social, economic and government activities were completely grounded in Owerri and its environs following the sit-at-home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in honour of the ongoing trial of their leader Nnamdi Kanu in court. This is as the residents of Owerri and other parts of the state standstill in total demonstration of their solidarity to the IPOB leader. Residents have deserted various streets in the capital city while business centres, eatery houses, markets were shut down in compliance with the order. Primary and secondary schools in the state were under lock and key as both pupils and students were directed to stay at home by their principals and headmistress and headteachers as the case may be. Financial institutions, motor parks, and hotels in the city of Owerri were shut down for activities. Our correspondents who monitored the order said that all the major roads such as Owerri/Port Harcourt road, Owerri/Onitsha road, Owerri/Aba, Owerri/Umuahia, Mbaise, Okigwe, Orlu roads are completely deserted. Commercial and private vehicles have also refused to ply on the roads as there were no passengers to patronize them. Few passengers sited on some of the roads were stranded as there were few buses to take them to their destinations. The Owerri/ Umuahia Mbaise road is deserted by both people and vehicles. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…IPOB sit-at-home grounds  IPOB sit-at-home grounds Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…IPOB sit-at-home grounds  IPOB sit-at-home grounds