An Anambra State businesswoman, Nnenna Ezenwa, has dragged a Catholic Reverend Father in the state, Ejike Nwankwo, to court for allegedly defrauding her of over N4 million. According to a charge number: FNI/Awka/C/31/21 obtained by our correspondent, the matter was instituted at the Federal High Court, Awka between the Inspector General of Police as complainant and Reverend Father Ejike Nwankwo as the defendant. The charge stated that the Rev Father obtained about N4,025,000 from the woman before the business went awry. The charge maintained that after obtaining the money from the woman over a property, the Rev Father had agreed to sell to her, the cleric mobilised hoodlums to prevent her ingress into the place without recourse to her investment. The charge stated that by so doing, the cleric committed an offence contrary to section 1(I)(a)(c) and punishable under section 3 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act,2004. The charge read in part, “That you, Reverend Father Ejike Nwankwo, of Maryland Catholic Centre, Okpuno, Awka, sometime in the month of December 2020, at Umunze within the Judicial Division of the Honourable Court did commit the offence of obtaining property by false pretences in that with intent to defraud. ” You fraudulently deceived one Nnenna Ezenwa, female by telling her that you would sell a company called Harrita Gold Inter Biz Imprex Nig Ltd, as a subsidiary of Ejimary Nig limited lying and situate at Kilometre 1 Umuchu Road, Umunze to her and obtained the sum of N4,025,000 from her on the pretence that you would use it to repair some items of the company. “And after collecting the money from her you mobilised hoodlums, forcefully chases her and her staff away and locked up the premises without recourse to her investment. “You thereby committed an offence contrary to section 1(I)(a)(c) and punishable under section 3 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act, 2004. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Electoral committee  Electoral committee Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Electoral committee  Electoral committee ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.