The Supreme Court, on Monday, slated May 2, 2022, to deliver judgment in a suit filed by the former governor of Rivers State, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, seeking to stop his probe in alleged N96 billion fraud and alleged fraudulent sales of assets belonging to Rivers State. A seven-member panel of Justices of the apex court led by Justice Olukayode Ariwoola announced the date for the judgment after talking arguments for and against the suit. Amaechi who is currently the Minister of Transportation is praying the apex court to prohibit Governor Nyesom Wike from investigating his eight-year tenure as the executive governor of the state. The former governor represented by Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) predicated his opposition to the probe on the ground that it was aimed at witch-hunting him, to embarrass him, humiliate him and disgrace him in view of his political differences with his successor. Wike who constituted a seven-man panel to investigate Amaechi, on his part, is asking the Supreme Court to dismiss Amaechi’s suit. The governor, represented by Emmanuel Ukala (SAN) insisted that the Commission of Inquiry headed by Justice George Omekeji was to look into how N96 billion was allegedly withdrawn from the Treasury of the state government and how it was expended. Wike also said that the Commission of Inquiry was to look into the lawful or otherwise, sales of valuable assets of the state. The listed valuable assets are Omoku Gas Turbine, Afam Gas Turbine, Trans Amadi Gas Turbine, Eleme Gas Turbine, Olympia Hotel and the award of contract for the execution of MonoRail Project. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Supreme Court fixes May 27 for judgment in Amaechi’s suit seeking to stop probe on alleged N96bn fraud ORITAMEFA BAPTIST MODEL SCHOOLS, (OBMS), IBADAN 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION INTO JSS1 FOR 2022/2023 COMES UP ON SATURDAY, 2ND APRIL, 2022 @ 8:00A.M. 
OBMS..... Excellence through Integrity TRY IT TODAY!!! --- Abuja Man reveals (2) Secret Fruits That Increased His Small Manhood, Gives Stronger Erections and Stops Premature Ejaculation In 7 Days... CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS.