As the name implies, gift cards can serve as gifts to your loved ones. It is a debit card preloaded with funds and can be used to purchase items in bars, restaurants, fuel stations, or anywhere that accepts them. Simply put, it is an alternative means of payment. Instead of carrying cash around for transactions, gift cards are a more convenient way to make transactions. There are more than 1000 gift cards around the world in circulation today. You must have heard of the likes of Amazon gift cards, iTunes gift cards, Apple Store gift cards, Walmart gift cards, amongst others. In as much as Nigerians would love to exploit gift cards as an alternative means of payment, they can’t, and that is because most of the retail stores that accept gift cards do not have subsidiaries in the country. In a bid to salvage the situation, several gift card exchange platforms have been launched. With this platform, Nigerians would not necessarily exchange their gift cards for goods and services, but they will now exchange them for cash (Naira). The exchange process is relatively easy, simple, and short, but only if you use the right platform. On the other hand, the wrong platforms are usually fronts for scammers and rippers to defraud people. The right gift card exchange platform houses several features that foster easy and fast gift card exchange transactions. One of the right gift card exchange platforms, which also happens to be the best gift card exchange platform in Nigeria, is Cardvest. What is Cardvest? Cardvest is a gift card exchange platform that was launched in 2016. Since its launch, Cardvest has continued to be a model platform to other platforms by providing satisfactory services for its customers. Cardvest has all the required features you seek in a reliable gift card platform, as you will find in the next section. Why is Cardvest outstanding? For a gift card platform to be outstanding, it must possess several features that set it apart from the herd. For this reason, Cardvest is gradually becoming the ultimate choice of the people. The unique features that Cardvest possess are discussed below. User-friendly interface: The Cardvest platforms are straightforward to use. The user interface is intuitive, making it easy for you to navigate the platform without stress. Best rates: the primary reason why Nigerians sell their gift cards for naira is to make profits. For this reason, CardVest is very intentional about ensuring that all their customers yield maximum profits. On CardVest, you get to sell your gift cards 80% of the gift card’s face value, and even though the exchange rates of gift cards are not constant, CardVest still sells at the best rate. Rates calculator: A rates calculator is a tool on the Cardvest platform that allows you to calculate the current rate of your gift card before buying or selling them. The rates calculator is usually updated with the latest Chinese rates, which we all know are the best rates in the market. Even more exciting is that you don’t need to be a registered user to utilize the tool. All you have to do is follow the processes below to check your rates. 24/7 customer service: Cardvest is a customer-oriented trading platform; hence they offer top-notch customer servers. CardVest customer service team is very responsive and is available to attend to your needs at all times. High-level security: Cardvest employs high-level security technology in ensuring that all your card details are safe from hackers. Referral bonuses: Cardvest is one of the few platforms that pay its users for the referral. After becoming a registered user on Cardvest, you are entitled to a referral code that can be shared with anyone. Whenever you share your referral code, and the referred person completes a trade on the platform, you are paid 500 nairas. What’s even more fun is that you can refer as many people as you like. Flexible: You need nothing as a gift card trader that you can’t get on Cardvest. Cardvest supports a wide array of gift cards, including Amazon, iTunes, Steam, Sephora, Walmart, eBay, Nordstrom, etc. It is also available on both Apple Store and Google Playstore for download. 