The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on Thursday donated improved learning materials for pupils in basic schools in Taraba State. Director General of the agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh while presenting the items to school children in Jalingo said the gesture was the agency’s move to improve the quality of teaching and learning and part of the agency’s efforts to support the education of children in Taraba State. Jamoh also said the agency had procured medical equipment to also boost primary health care services in the State. He advised benefiting clinics to make judicious use of the equipment to enhance health care services to indigent people. “This is part of the agency’s ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative across the 36 states of the Federation and the FCT. “If we succeed in helping to ensure that some students improve academically, we would make a difference. “I want to appeal that the materials donated today be used judiciously to give the children the best,” he urged. Director of Relief, Taraba State Emergency Management Agency (TASEMA), Mr Anthony Danu in a remark blamed inadequate provision of teaching and learning equipment in public schools, as it was a major challenge for basic education in the state. Danu listed some of the equipment donated to include desktop computers, printers, whiteboard, markers, assorted textbooks, writing materials, exercise books, food flasks, school bags, sandals and sucks, among others. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Headmaster of Howai primary school, one of the benefiting schools, Mr Sa’ad Yakubu thanked NIMASA for her support to education in the state. Yakubu noted that the items would go a long way in supporting the school in its day-to-day teaching and learning activities.  He assured that the school would judiciously utilize the items for the good of the pupils and educational development in the state. Correspondent reports that the equipment donated include desktop computers, printers, whiteboard, markers, assorted textbooks, writing materials, exercise books, food flasks, school bags, sandals and sucks, among others. The agency also donated medical equipment such as a stethoscope, clinical thermometer, pulse tester, delivery kits, hand sanitizers, beds and bedsheets, and a drip stand among others.  