Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule has summoned an emergency security meeting over the influx of bandits into some parts of the state. At the meeting with heads of security agencies, traditional rulers, council chairmen and other state stakeholders on Friday in Lafia, the governor calls for collaboration, especially in the area of intelligence sharing. The meeting comes barely two days after he ordered the closure of schools in the state over security threats following the attack on Kuje Correctional Center by terrorists and the escape of many inmates, including Boko Haram members. The governor said security reports indicated that bandits fleeing from Niger, Zamfara, Kebbi and Kaduna states, were identified in Rugan Juli and Rugan Madaki both in Karu Local Government Area, as well as in Wamba and Toto local government areas of the state. He said the development has led to a disturbing surge in kidnapping activities in the affected areas of the state. “We believe it’s very necessary to call this meeting in view of some of the security challenges we are beginning to see. As usual, the government decided to be proactive and in order to be proactive, we have to also join in calling for this meeting, so that we can share ideas,” he said. The Governor appreciated the security agencies operating in the state, as well as traditional rulers, for their continued roles, in addressing security challenges. The commissioner of police in the state, Adesina Soyemi, said the council has urged the joint security task force to increase its patrols and raids across the local government areas with high incidences of kidnapping and other criminal activities. He noted that the council also urged all good people of Nasarawa State, to work together so that suspected bandits would not be allowed to take up residence in the state to cause problems. He said the council also resolved that any information gathered, should be immediately transmitted to necessary security agencies for prompt action. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.Gov Sule convenes emergency  Gov Sule convenes emergency If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Gov Sule convenes emergency  Gov Sule convenes emergency  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 