The Federal Government has declared Monday, July 11 and Tuesday, July 12, 2022, as public holidays to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, who made the declaration on behalf of the Federal Government, congratulated all Muslims and Nigerians both at home and in the Diaspora on this occasion. This was contained in a statement signed by the Permanent Secretary, Dr Shuaib Belgore, on Thursday, and made available to newsmen in Abuja. “I call on Muslims to continue to imbibe the spirit of love, peace, kindness and sacrifice, as exemplified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon Him) and to also use the period to pray for peace, unity, prosperity and the stability of the country, considering the challenges of insecurity we face at the moment,” Aregbesola added. The Minister assured Nigerians that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is “committed to the security of lives and properties of all Nigerians, empowering the citizens for successful living, the provisions of social investments programmes and adequate security in the schools,” he added. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Aregbesola, while wishing Muslims a happy Eid-el Kabir celebration, urged Nigerians to take responsibility by reporting any suspicious individuals and criminal activities they observed around them to law enforcement agencies with the use of N-Alerts application that has been designed to mitigate security challenges with prompt response from security agencies: as soon as you “See Something Do N-Alerts,” most especially during this festival. He also enjoined all Nigerians to be vigilant and observant of intruders in their communities. “We must all take responsibility for the security of lives and property as we celebrate this year’s festival,” he said. Aregbesola craves the indulgence of every Nigerian to come together, put our heads, hearts and all we have together, in order to achieve relative peace for harmonious coexistence and put an end to insecurities in Nigeria, he reiterated. While wishing Nigerians a happy Eid-el Kabir celebration, the Minister pledges the government’s protection of all under the law, maintenance of law and order and keeping the peace in all situations. Obasanjo Turns ‘Keke NAPEP’ Rider, Carries Passengers In Abeokuta FG declares Monday, Tuesday public holidays to mark Eid-el-Kabir celebration  How To Detect Fake Bank Alerts FG declares Monday, Tuesday public holidays to mark Eid-el-Kabir celebration 