The Katsina State Police Command says it has arrested one Kamala Lawal, a suspected escapee from the recent prison attack in Kuje, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The command’s spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, disclosed this on Friday in Katsina while parading the suspect and other suspected criminals. Isah said that based on credible information, the DPO of Danmusa and his team carried out raids at suspected criminal hideouts in Danmusa Local Government Area (LGA) and succeeded in arresting the suspect. ”On July 14, at about 6:00 p. m., based on credible information, we succeeded in arresting one Kamala Lawal, aged 33, of Unguwar Sale Quarters, Danmusa LGA, a suspected fugitive from Kuje prison, Abuja. “In the course of an investigation, the suspect confessed to have escaped from Kuje Prison, Abuja, during the recent jailbreak. “Some quantity of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp were also recovered in his possession during police search. “Suspect will be handed over to the Nigerian Correctional Service for further necessary action,” the spokesperson said. He added that the command also succeeded in busting a notorious syndicate of armed robbers terrorising Katsina metropolitan area and its environs. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.Another suspected Kuje  Another suspected Kuje If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Another suspected Kuje  Another suspected Kuje ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 