IN the name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. Almighty Allah announces in Qur’an, Taubah, 9:36, on the true reckoning of dates that, “The number of months in the sight of God is twelve (in a year)— So ordained by Him the day He created the heavens and the earth; Of them four are sacred: That is the straight usage. So wrong not yourselves therein, and fight the pagans all together as they fight you all together. But know that God is with those who restrain themselves.” Another 12 full calendar months have rolled by for the Muslim faithful in the world. Another 50 weeks are gone by in the Islamic calendar. Another rotation of full moon within its orbit for 354 days is complete in the account of dates among Muslims. Another divine year is complete. The Hijra calendar New Year is here. Another commemoration of the holy flight of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAW) from Makkah to Madinah is here (Q.8:30; 9:40). Another joyful moment for the Muslim faithful is here when the Prophet triumphed over all persecutions, humiliation and attempted murder by the pagans in Makkah after preaching the worship of Allah for 13 years in Makkah. Another reflection moment over the victorious incident of 622 AD is here when the conveyor of the Message escaped death with his followers for delivering the divine message (Qur’an 36:1-9). Another period to ponder the miraculous victory of Islam over all religions as the divine religion named by Allah for mankind is here when it escaped elimination as its leader survived extinction. Almighty Allah reminds Prophet Muhammad (SAW) how he saved him on the day of emigration from Makkah to Madinah on 13th Rabiul-Awwal, 1 in Holy Qur’an, Anfal, 8:30: “Remember how the unbelievers plotted against thee to keep thee in bonds or slay thee or get thee out (of thy home). They plot and plan and God too plans but the best of planners is God.” Also, God Almighty testifies that the only companion of the Prophet (SAW) on the day of the emigration (Hijrah) from Makkah to Madinah, from the persecutors, killers and tormentors is Abu-Bakr Siddique. It was truly miraculous (mujiza), how Almighty Allah saved Prophet Muhammad (SAW) when the killer-idolaters stormed his house to murder him on emigration day (Hijrah). The invaders slept off as Prophet Muhammad (SAW) placed his cousin Alli Bin Abu-Talib on his bed and walked past them. We are heralding the first lunar month, Muharram of the New Year, which is one of the four sacred months when wars, battles and all forms of hostilities and wrangling are forbidden. It is the blessed month of istijabah in which we have the blessed night of Ashura (10th day of Muharram) when prayers of Prophets, great sheikhs, and ulama were answered. For Sunnis, Ashura commemorates the exodus of Moses from Egypt, and is usually observed by completing an optional fast as practised by the Prophet Muhammad. This day also marks the anniversary of the tragic death of the Prophet’s grandson, Husain, at the hands of the Umayyad ruler, Yazid. For Shi’as, the day is marked with mourning and often with enactments of the tragic event. However, the use of the Islamic lunar month calendar in the reckoning of dates is as old as the creation of the heavens and the earth more than four million years ago (Quran 9:36), whereas the non-Islamic or Gregorian January-to-December calendar was initiated by the Romans about 400 years ago. It was Pope Gregory XIII that actually adopted January 1st as the New Year’s Day for the Christians in 1582 A.D. It used to be March 25 for more than 15 centuries. The other types of calendars used around the world are: But the adoption of the great event of Hijra, i.e., emigration of Prophet Muhammad and his companions from Makkah to Madinah as the beginning of the Muslim era took place in the Caliphate of Umar Ibn Al-Khattab, the second Caliph after Muhammad (SAW). We are now heralding the year 1444 After Hijra (July 30, 2022). Significantly, it heralds a new epoch for humanity. This is wishing the over two billion Muslims worldwide Happy Islamic New Year. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.The Islamic New Year  The Islamic New Year If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.The Islamic New Year  The Islamic New Year ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 