Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje has approved and released N33 million as upkeep allowance to scholars of Kano State extraction who are currently undergoing various categories of post-graduate studies in France. This was contained in a statement issued and signed by the Commissioner for Higher Education, Dr Mariya Mahmoud Bunkure, on Sunday said the fund is part of the counter funding under the “France – Kano State Government Scholarship Scheme.” It will be recalled that in line with the government’s numerous strive for improving the quality and standard of higher education in the state, the governor on behalf of the state had signed a bilateral agreement with the government of France in training scholars from Kano in French universities,” the statement said. According to the statement: “These scholars are in reputable and world-class universities with a special interest in science and technology.” The statement then disclosed that through this scheme, hundreds of scholars drawn from institutions of higher learning in the state had completed and acquired Masters and PhD degrees. Many others are on the final lap of completing their programmes. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike  The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  