The Lagos State Government has declared Monday, September 5, 2022, as the first term resumption date for schools in the year 2022/2023 academic session. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Director-General of the Office of Education Quality Assurance (OEQA), Abiola Seriki Ayeni on Thursday, July 21, 2022. In the approved school calendar for the year 2022/2023, the first term will end on Friday, December 16, 2022. Seriki explained that the academic calendar for the year 2022/2023 was done to harmonize the calendars of both public and private schools in the state and prioritize harmonized instructional days of learning to ensure that students in the state spend productive learning hours in the classrooms. He also stressed the need for schools to maintain a minimum of 180 learning days. She enjoined all schools to adhere strictly to the academic calendar as approved for the delivery of quality and sustainable education in Lagos State in tandem with the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Education and Technology.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… Safety tips to observe when boarding a ride from a ride-hailing app In order to ensure your safety when next you board a ride, here are safety tips to observe when boarding a ride on ride-hailing apps… 