Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello of Niger State while returning from Abuja, where he had engagements, stopped his convoy at Paiko, the headquarters of Paikoro local government to assist accident victims. The accident was between a Mercedes 200 conveying a family of five, travelling to Ilorin, Kwara State and a motorcycle that was overloaded with passengers. Three out of the five people on the motorcycle had fractures while the other two sustained injuries. However, those in the Mercedes 200 did not sustain any injury. The governor who sympathized with the traumatized victims directed that those who had fractures should be taken to Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) Specialist Hospital Minna for treatment. He also asked one of his aides to ensure the immediate repairs of the car. Governor Bello further enjoined the Paiko Divisional Police Station to see to the safety of the driver of the vehicle who had reported himself to the station.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 