Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI), Ilorin, Kwara State has just concluded a five-day training programme for selected 40 youths from states in the country on the basics of agripreneurship. Speaking at the closing ceremony of the training programme, the executive director of the institute, Dr. Olufemi Oladunni, said that the aim was to position the youth to engage in agribusiness as an alternative to the elusive white collar jobs. He also said that the training programme was expected to make the beneficiaries overcome graduate unemployment problems in the country. Represented by head, Training Department of the institute, Dr. Abdulrazaq Yahaya, the ARMTI boss said that the institute would continue to equip youths with requisite skills and empowerment to unlock huge potentials in agribusiness. He also said that the programme for the 40 youths was the first in the series of tuition-free agripreneurship trainings by the institute. “It was, particularly, focused on selected youths, who applied in response to ARMTI online call for application. “The basics of agripreneurship was well imparted into them to position them to engage in agribusiness as an alternative to white collar jobs and overcome the graduate unemployment problems in the country. “Being youths, ICT component as it affects agriculture, was also a major component,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 