Bishop of Ajayi Crowther Anglican Diocese, Iseyin, Oyo State, Bishop Olugbenga Oduntan, has charged Christians to be more involved in the forthcoming general election. Speaking at the Bishop’s Charge of the first session of the Fifth Synod of the diocese, Bishop Oduntan said it is high time Christians were practically involved in the electoral process and politics in general. He said the country must get it right in 2023 or never, adding that the kingdom of God runs on principles, constitution which aids justice, judgment and equity. “This is the template that will bring Nigeria back to life. As Christians, we cannot fold our arms and expect miracle to happen and it is time we participate in the electoral process,” he said. Speaking on the state of insecurity in the country, he encouraged the federal government to strengthen local security and also empower Amotekun to carry arms adding that state governments should be ready to buy state-of-the-art ammunition that can withstand those of the terrorists. “If government is not ready to protect the lives and property of her citizenry, then Nigerians should defend themselves using every means available. Men of God should become men like Elijah whose word would be strong enough to disarm the enemies without carrying any physical weapon. “When a nation loses the capacity to inspire loyalty, confidence and pride among its citizenry; when the basic needs of life cannot be provided; when the sense of ownership is lost and its citizens are desperately ready to disown it then, that nation is dead. “When its currency has lost value on the global market and currency of other nations are preferred within its boundaries: when the passport of a nation has lost it dignity and value only to become a mere identification card, then that nation is dead. “For God’s people, hope lies in trusting that God is not yet finished with us or with this world. What we already experience in God’s kingdom now will one day give way to that glorious reality of God’s future. Where there will be no more suffering, no more tears, no more death. “Mourning and crying and pain will be no more (Revelation 21:4). On that day, God’s people will say:‘This is our God; this is the Lord for whom we have waited. Let us rejoice in his salvation (Isaiah 25:9).’ On that day, God’s people will say, This is our God; this is the Lord for whom we have waited. Let us rejoice in his salvation (Isaiah 25:9).” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.”  He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 