Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has expressed grief over the demise of Ajiyan Gombe and Senior District Head of Kwami, Alhaji Haruna Abdullahi who died in the early hours of Monday at the age of 94 after a protracted illness. In a statement of condolence, the Governor described the passage of the traditional leader as a huge loss to the state and the nation. He stated that the deceased was an iconic figure, reputable educationist  and highly respected leader in Gombe State, who, throughout his 53 years of reign as a district head, was known for preaching peace and championing the course of unity and harmony, not only within his domain but across the entire state. The Governor further stated that the late traditional leader has left behind huge vacuum and indelible footprints, adding that the government will surely miss his fatherly guidance and counsels. He urged the family members to sustain the legacies of honour, dignity and selfless service left by the late senior district head, Alhaji Haruna Abdullahi. Inuwa Yahaya, on behalf of the government and people of Gombe State, extended his heartfelt condolences to the  Gombe Emirate Council, the people of Kwami District and the entire Kwami community over the monumental loss, praying Almighty Allah to grant the deceased Aljannat Firdaus. Meanwhile, the funeral prayer (Janazah) for the late Ajiyan Gombe has been scheduled for Monday, 11th July, 2022 by 2:30pm at Malam Sidi, headquarters of Kwami Local Government as contained in a statement by Ismaila Uba Misilli, Director-General (Press Affairs), Government House, Gombe. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 