Many trucks including tankers were on Tuesday afternoon burnt as a tanker fully loaded with diesel went up in flames at the Articulated Truck Park, Otto Wharf in the Mile 2 area of Lagos State. Though the cause of the fire incident was yet to be ascertained as at the time of filing this report, the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) confirmed it. The fire incident was said to have started from one of the tankers. The fire reportedly instantly spread to other vehicles which were parked at the park. Firefighters from the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service and officials of LASEMA were as of Tuesday evening still battling to put out the fire. The extent of the damage could also not be ascertained as at the time of filing this report. LASEMA spokesperson, Nosa Okunbor, confirmed the incident and also added that the agency’s personnel and other responders were attending to the incident.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  