The National Security Council is working on new strategies to curtail the worsening insecurity in the country as it observed that Nigerians are tired and gravitating towards self-help. The National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd), stated this while briefing correspondents on the outcome of the Council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday. Joined by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali, he noted that the country is in a difficult situation, saying that the President is aware of the people’s concerns about the growing insecurity. He revealed that the Security Council has agreed on new strategies to curtail the menace, assuring that there will be a renewed momentum against terrorism. The NSA also revealed that Council is in the process of winding up special investigation on Kuje Correctional Center attack with a view to holding those found negligent accountable for their actions. He urged the media to be circumspect in what they publish from terrorists, appealing that they should consider the consequences of such materials. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… Safety tips to observe when boarding a ride from a ride-hailing app  In order to ensure your safety when next you board a ride, here are safety tips to observe when boarding a ride on ride-hailing apps… Secure your social media accounts from hackers with these tips It is no longer news that a lot of social media accounts are being hacked daily. It is so painful to have built a strong social media presence and eventually lose it to the hands of social media hackers. These tips will guide you on how to protect your social media accounts easily without struggle… Things to look out for before starting a business Insecurity: Nigerians tired, gravitating towards self help ― NSA 