After teasing his fans with a couple of singles and an EP, Afro Pop and Afro Reggae star, Nnamdi M. Obi also known as M’zaah is set to release his new single, Blessed. M’zaah has recently released a couple of singles with an EP, entitled Balance and Equality to his credit in the past six months. After declaring himself as the new face of afro-reggae music, which is a combination of Afrobeat and reggae, M’zaah has been trending on social media platforms with fans cautioning him about aiming too high. But he assured his fans of great sounds and projects in the nearest future that will prove critics of his music career wrong even as he announced a new release this week. He took to his Twitter and Instagram to post new artwork and a snippet of his hit single which is scheduled to be released on major music streaming platforms on August 5. The song which is titled “Blessed” promises to be a hit and according to what we have heard in the snippet this will indeed become one of the most talked about and most streamed singles for the summer. According to the singer, “Blessed is reflecting on how life was and how I got through certain hurdles. Life gives me all the reasons to believe we are blessed and powerful beyond our imaginations. ‘Blessed’ is not a bragging right but a deliberate attempt to arouse the consciousness of anyone in their worst feelings to count their blessings and winnings more than their losses.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.M’zaah set to release  M’zaah set to release If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.M’zaah set to release  M’zaah set to release ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira  2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 