The Federal Government has declared unlawful, the street protest planned by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in solidarity with the striking members of the University-based unions, saying that it can cause anarchy in the country. The Congress has announced that it would embark on a nationwide protest on July 26 and 27 to press home the need to resolve the over five-month old strike especially by ASUU. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed,  who briefed correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday, said since the NLC has no dispute with the government, its planned street protest is illegal. The minister said that what the NLC is doing is about interest, noting that it should insulate itself completely from politics. He said: “While we’re still on Labour, I think we should also start to interrogate what labour is doing. The NLC is not a political party. The NLC can go on strike or protest if the rights of NLC members are involved. “What the NLC is planning in the next two days is about interest. There’s no dispute whatsoever between NLC as a body with the federal government. Well yes, there’s a dispute between some members of NLC, ASUU and the Federal Government which is being looked into. And NLC itself it’s a party to the committee that is looking into the solution. “So, calling out people on street protest you begin to wonder, what is the motive of NLC in this matter? But you see here, we do not interrogate what NLC is doing. NLC by its own laws, cannot even give out pamphlets. And NLC is supposed to be completely insulated from politics. “Now, if you declare a dispute with us, yes you can go on strike. Even that one would depend on whether certain steps have been taken or not. But this particular NLC, you know, asking and mobilizing people to come out on strike on July 26 and 27, is clearly on nothing.” When told that NLC was worried about the prolonged strike which is also affecting their children, Mohammed responded: “The Federal Government is as worried as NLC and everybody, but the law is the law. What we are saying is that rather than…what I expect NLC to do as an umbrella body to find solutions, to join the Federal Government in finding solution. “They are part of the tripartite agreement that has been negotiating with the Federal Government on this ASUU issue. So, why are they now going out to take sides? “I think you should interrogate it yourselves. I think is popular to get NLC out and support but ask yourself how does that help the problem? How does that solve the problem? “What you are going to create is more anarchy. “And I think the NLC should think twice about their proposed strike in solidarity with ASUU. Is as if the federal government is doing nothing about ASUU. No. And they’ve been involved in this negotiation all along so why now?”  Also speaking during the briefing, the Minister of Aviation, Hadid Sirika, expressed confidence that workers in the sector will not join the NLC protest following their threat to shut down airports in solidarity with the striking university-based unions Asked if the Aviation union would join,  he said: “I’m naturally concerned about this if the aviation union will shut down in support of ASUU. “I will say they have no need to. I will say also that we should begin to look at civil aviation as a critical national security enterprise. It has all the implications. We should not contemplate or think about an aviation disaster. We should also think about the general activity in the economy of Nigeria. “Without civilization, it’s okay. This is democracy, you can push for demands, but in pressing for demands, you should be reasonable in doing so. Where the life that you’re trying to promote would be seriously affected and hampered, where lives can be lost because of your own activity, I think it should be reconsidered. ALSO READ FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “So, civil aviation workers, I think should not be part of this. Yes, I am concerned and yes, we’ve spoken to them and I don’t think they will join because they know that there’s huge responsibility of lives on their heads. “If you’re an air traffic controller, it involves national security. It involves the capability of preventing external aggression and so on so forth. I believe that they are very aware of the enormous responsibility upon them in civil aviation and they should continue to see it so and continue to be as law-abiding as we want them to be.” Also, in a chat with correspondents on the same issue, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, affirmed that it was the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, that requested for two weeks to sort issues with the striking University unions while himself as the “conciliator” thought one week would have been enough. When reminded that ASUU’s belief was that two days would have been alright, Ngige stated: “I requested for one week.” He lamented the plan by the NLC to go on street protest, saying that the action was “incongruous” because Labour is part of those on the negotiation table. Meanwhile,  the Presidency has affirmed that the there was no two weeks ultimatum for the Minister of Education to resolve ASUU strike. According to a statement issued by Garba Shehu, Senior special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) on Wednesday, the outcome of the meeting held by President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday with relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs)  to end the agitations by university unions did not provide such ultimatum.. It stated: “During the meeting, the Minister of Education requested that the Minister of Labour hands off the negotiation to allow him lead and conclude what he had earlier on started with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). And he promised that he could get an agreement within the shortest possible time, possibly two to three weeks. “In carrying out this assignment, the Minister will carry along all relevant ministries and agencies with statutory functions and duties relating to the issues involved. “The Presidency is optimistic that agreements can be reached in an even shorter period if all parties/stakeholders are not unrealistically obstinate. We appeal to the parties to work together to end the strikes. “On the part of the administration, all doors remain open for dialogue and the resolution of the issues.” 