THIS year’s Hajj has been a turbulent one for the Hajj industry in Nigeria, although the situation is not distinctly noticeable in Nigeria alone. Other countries are battling with their own portion of hiccups as well. Little wonder why Saudi Arabia’s General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA) extended the opening of its airspace to other countries after acceding to Nigeria’s request. Some of the most serious reasons responsible for the country’s challenges revolve around aviation inconsistencies, failure to follow flight itinerary that led to 25 flight cancellations, slow visa processing due to insufficiency of funds in some tour operators’ wallets to enable spontaneous visa processing, and some noticeable anomalies in selecting eligible pilgrims to perform the Hajj, thereby slowing down the process. At times also, poor server forces suspension of visa issuance. Indeed, at the time of the signing of airlift agreement for the 2022 Hajj, all air carriers where charged with the responsibility of providing two big-capacity aircraft for the airlift. This they promised. Despite the fact that their entitlements were paid in line with signed agreement, only one of the carriers fulfilled this clause by the end of the regular operations period. This also affected the airlift operations. Besides, an agreement was entered with one of the airlines to provide aircraft that would transport licensed tour operators’ pilgrims for the Hajj. This never materialised. To address the aforementioned anomalies, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) invited them over and over again to comply. Only two provided small-capacity aircraft instead. For the umpteenth time, NAHCON has explained the reason for the visa delays for private tour operators and the leadership of the Association of Hajj and Umrah Operators in Nigeria and the steps taken to resolve the deadlock. Many allegations have been flying even after the commission had explained the issues in clear terms in the past. The newest is an allegation that seems to insinuate that NAHCON collected additional monies from stranded pilgrims of licensed tour operators. In unambiguous terms, NAHCON does not collect Hajj fare from any pilgrim, whether from the private or public quota. It has never been the commission’s tradition and it will not start now. Whoever has claims of being financially shortchanged can forward their grievances to the appropriate offices for investigation. As stated before, the chairman of NAHCON, Alhaji Zikrullah Kunle Hassan, did not abandon pilgrims; he had to be in Saudi Arabia for issues relating to their wellbeing. The commission is well aware of the unfounded allegations being spewed from various corners but is determined not to be distracted from the immediate crisis on its hands. Even with the extension of deadline, the commission has to contend with unfulfilled promises and agreements entered with certain stakeholders. Let it be stated again that NAHCON is a regulatory body with the interest of the pilgrims as its priority. Therefore, the commission under the leadership of Zikrullah Kunle Hassan will address issues raised at the right time, in other words, when it is done serving the guests of the Almighty whom He chose to answer His call. Airlift of pilgrims continued till the end of the deadline approved by GACA and over 40,000 out of 43,000 pilgrims, including tour operators’, had been airlifted to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Usara is the Assistant Director of Public Affairs at NAHCON.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 