Aging is an irreversible phenomenon that involves a cascade of internal changes in the body of an individual. Hypoxia (low oxygen concentration) is the basic reason for almost all degenerative diseases associated with old age. It is best explained as the reduced oxygen concentration at the cellular level. HBOT is analogous to natural breathing. It is nothing more than a quick supply of pure oxygen to body tissues that can rejuvenate the body. The oxygen supply (95%) inside the closed compartment at 2 ATA pressure ensures that the blood receives an excessive amount of oxygen, which is then transferred to the blood cells, plasma, CSF (cerebrospinal fluid), tissue fluid, and ultimately, body cells. This abundant supply of oxygen allows body tissues to heal naturally and alleviates stress caused by oxygen deficiency. Aging can be extrinsic or intrinsic. Extrinsic aging involves wrinkling of the skin, loss of collagen, and many other signs. Intrinsic aging is a complex phenomenon encompassing telomere shortening, mitochondrial dysfunction, genomic instability, inflammation, cell senescence, and weakening of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Aging is characterized by collagen depletion, memory problems, muscle and neurodegeneration, joint pain, and stunted cell growth. All of this is due to the expression of genes that leads to a cascade of inflammatory responses. HBOT helps the users to relieve pain, think faster, and feel energetic. The effects of HBOT as an antiaging therapy are as follows: Neurodegeneration is one of the most common issues associated with age. Less supply of oxygen to the brain cells and reduced blood circulation causes memory loss, metabolite deposition, and finally neuron damage. HBOT is found to be effective in overcoming the complications due to hypoxia in brain tissue. Various case studies prove HBOT to help users improve their brain performance and solve concentration issues. Clinical trials have been reported where users are satisfied with the therapy results. A hypoxic environment has a profound effect on blood vessel damage and HBOT promotes the formation of new blood vessels. In this way, the cells get a chance to get enough blood circulation to carry out their normal functions. Stem cell suppression is another complication that elderly people face. Telomere shortening is linked to cell cycle arrest that not only affects normal healing but also stem cell proliferation. HBOT, in multiple case studies, is found effective in stem cell division and differentiation. The importance of HBOT for aesthetic purposes cannot be overstated. A high concentration of pressurized oxygen improves the oxygen level in the cells, which has a rejuvenating effect. Oxygenated blood flow to the tissues repairs the damaged skin cells, reduces the wrinkles or other aging spots, elevates collagen synthesis, strengthens skin tissue, and promotes regeneration. All of these effects are visible on the user’s skin after each therapy, and following a few sessions, one can notice the transformation of dull skin to radiant skin. Recovery and healing directly depend on the cell cycle. People of old age suffer from delayed recovery because of stunted growth and proliferation of cells. Oxygen availability to cells along with positive effects at the genomic level to activate useful genes makes HBOT a life-changing therapy for those who dream of healthy aging.  Due to the anti-inflammatory properties of HBOT, it miraculously relieves pain, swelling, and trauma to tissues. An inefficient circulatory system causes ECM and body tissues to get deposited with different metabolites. HBOT solves these problems and regular sessions reverse the symptoms of swelling and pain. Undoubtedly, HBOT elevates the level of oxygen in the blood, finally improving the circulation and oxygen exchange at the cellular level. The concentration gradient built due to high blood oxygen level accelerates its diffusion at the cellular level. The series of healthy changes in the body such as suppression of defective genes and improved circulation, upregulate the growth hormones. When it comes to handling personnel without the assistance of a medical professional, there are certain preferable characteristics that users should consider before choosing a product for HBOT. Some of these features include high quality, easy operation, user-friendliness, automatic processing, product certification, and low operating cost.  Oxyhelp hyperbaric chambers, exclusively manufactured in Europe, use high-quality products acquired from well-known companies. These include automatic pneumatic control and resin fiber mattresses and pillows from SMC and Toyobo in Japan, respectively. An oxygen concentrator installed in these chambers is purchased from AirSep Corporation, in the USA, while other elements are from Spain and Germany. The company aims at providing users with high-quality, easy-to-operate chambers that are safe for use at home, in spas, fitness centers, and other non-medical settings. Moreover, they are cost-effective, safe for people of all ages, certified, and installed with anti-friction bearings. The anterior is antibacterial to avoid infections. The controls are automatic control and users can have two-way communication through mirror commands both inside and outside of the chamber.  HBOT therapy using Oxyhelp hyperbaric chambers has proved to be effective and safe, nevertheless, the users should medical advice if they are suffering from any chronic health issue. In some cases, it may cause oxygen toxicity, earache, joint pain, and seizures. The aged people should consult with their physician if they have heart problems, diabetes, or any other medical problem. 