“If music is the food of love, play on” is the famous opening line of Williams Shakespeare’s classic play, Twelfth Night, in which the importance of music is highlighted as a comforting art form in which we sometimes take solace. To celebrate International Music Day, Alliance Française de Lagos and Trace TV Naija organized a free concert featuring various Nigerian artists spanning different genres for avid music lovers and concertgoers. The event had performers like Okwei Odili, Mich Straww, Wura Samba, Tega Ethan, Majeed, Minz and C Natty, and Dj’s Lisa Li and Skoolboy. In between sets, there was a karaoke session and a magical performance to entertain guests further. International Music Day or Fête de la Musique is a celebration of all things related to music, as it originated in France in 1982 and is celebrated on the 21st of June every year to promote music and honour the musicians and singers for the gift of music, which gives flight to the imagination and life to everything. Alliance Française de Lagos’s Director, Marc Brébant, expressed: “Fête de la Musique’s main objective is to promote music and enable people to enjoy and discover new sounds and new artistes with various genres like folk or Afro-fusion. We are very happy to be hosting this year’s celebration in partnership with Trace Naija and we hope to continually produce such an event in the coming years.” M.D of Trace West Africa, Sam Onyemelukwe stated “We are very delighted to have partnered with Alliance Française for this year’s Fete De La Musique celebration in Lagos, Nigeria. The collaboration effectively brought about a showcase of diverse genres of music from the Nigerian Entertainment scene which tuned attendees/music lovers to an evening of beautiful live music. The performances from artists such as Ekwei, Tega Ethan & Majeed showed the ever-growing influences of music and the cultural relevance of celebrating such an enigma around the world.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.AFRIMA 2022  AFRIMA 2022  If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.AFRIMA 2022 AFRIMA 2022 ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 