 The press secretary said that several illegal structures along the waterways in Fegge and the environs of Onitsha would be pulled down. “The exercise which began from Bida Road by Modebe Avenue, Fegge, Onitsha, is expected to be extended to other parts of the town,”. He said that the team handling the demolition began the work at Fegge area of Onitsha following the expiration of the more than two months’ notice served developers and building owners in April this year. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some of the buildings affected were the security and generator houses of Prophet Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere of Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention Deliverance Ministries, Onitsha aka Odumeje. According to an eyewitness who pleaded anonymity, the task force supervising the work manhandled the Prophet who tried to prevent the workers from demolishing his structures. “When the team arrived in the company of armed security operatives, we saw them struggling with the Prophet while the operator of the bulldozer was busy demolishing the structures,”  the source said. The source further said that the structures erected along the Nwangene stream were being removed in line with the actualisation of the Onitsha Urban Renewal Plan. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…..Why Odumeje’s building was Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital……Why Odumeje’s building was How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports…..Why Odumeje’s building was If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  