An Igando Customary Court, Lagos, Lagos State, has dissolved the 33-year-old marriage between Mr Tobias Udeze and wife, Chioma, on the grounds of infidelity, dishonesty and criminal tendencies. The court president, Mr Adeniyi Koledoye, stated that it was a sad that the couple who were grandparents were unable to settle their differences and had to come to court. “The court finds it strange that the respondent left her matrimonial home for 10 years without her husband’s consent, which is enough to dissolve the union.  The question is where was she throughout this period? “However, the court has come to the conclusion that the relationship between the petitioner and the respondent has broken down irretrievably and as such the dissolution of their marriage succeeds,” he said. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) the petitioner, Tobias had approached the court on June 24, 2021, seeking for divorce from his wife on grounds of lack of love, dishonesty and adultery among others. The petitioner, a clearing agent said that since they got married 33 years ago, his wife had not shown him any love despite having children for him. “As a result of her dishonesty, I consulted the elders who always admonish me to be patient with her, which was the reason I stayed this long in my marriage to her. “I found out that my wife was having extra marital affairs which she denied. “She also abandoned me and our children for 10 years. The youngest of our children was 10 years old when she left. “Sometime in 2008, I was asleep, around 2.00 a.m. She left the house, and by 4.00 a.m., the police came to the house to whisk me and our first daughter away. “When we got to the station they called out two men in handcuffs to identify me but they said I was not the culprit but my wife. They beat me so much saying I was an accomplice but I had to keep pleading until I was later released. “My wife never showed up at the police station because she was afraid of being locked up.  I later learnt that she was into smuggling of goods. “I am fed up with our marriage and I want the court to grant my plea of divorce,” he said.  The respondent, a trader, agreed that their marriage be dissolved. She stated that she was also fed up with their relationship. “He has not been playing the role of a breadwinner. All my life I have been struggling to take care of the home and our children. “He lied that I smuggled goods.  It was my friend who got involved in a fraud. She collected money from someone for a job but failed to deliver. The person came after her with a police, but couldn’t find her. I was therefore arrested in her place. “My husband accused me of infidelity yet he sleeps with my younger sister. “I got fed up with our marriage a long time ago. I, therefore, want him to leave my house. I am the one who built the house we are living in,” she said. After much argument about who owned the property, the court president told the duo to approach a High Court to contest the ownership of the landed property. “And if it belonged to the petitioner, he should pay the respondent the sum of N200,000 to enable her move out, ”Koledoye said. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 