The management of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has again urged members of the public to intensify surveillance in their communities as a measure to tackle the increasing cases of transformer vandalism in the areas. This is according to a statement signed by Ibrahim Sani Shawai, Chief Corporate Communications Officer of KEDCO, a copy made available to pressmen in KANO. He said the increase in the menace has caused serious economic losses for KEDCO while hindering efforts at guaranteeing constant and quality electricity supply to customers. Shawai stated that “those vandalising our equipment are taking advantage of the rainy season to sneak into our transformers to vandalise cables, steal oil and other valuables. He however disclosed that illegal connections and vandalism are factors contributing to low supply to residential areas. “The danger of such acts is exposing the general public and even the perpetrators to disaster,” the management added. The management therefore appealed to the general public to help KEDCO by reporting attempts to vandalise or steal any of KEDCO’s equipment to the nearest KEDCO offices or security outposts.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  