IN order to improve the liveability of Lagos State, former chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Lagos Chapter, Mr Bisi Adedire, has advised the Lagos State Government and other stakeholders not to compromise  standards and quality when carrying out projects and rendering services. The advice, according to Adedire, has become necessary following the recent poor ranking of Lagos by the Economic Intelligent Unit (EIU)’s report on city’s liveability. Adedire said it has become expedient that government and all stakeholders should pay full attention to standards when implementing projects in the state. “The standard of the teachers who teach our children in public or private institutions should be top-notch. The roads or buildings to be constructed must be done with high quality materials,” he said. He noted that Lagos State had witnessed a lot of building collapses in the last five years, most of which, according to him, were result of compromise on standards. Secondly, he urged that standards should take priority in the implementation of available development plans in the state to improve the liveability index. ‘I am aware that there a lot of plans that have been prepared by the government. For instance, there is the drainage master plan that I know can solve many of our environmental and waste management challenges but it is not being implemented. The government needs to start implementing these plans for appropriate usage,” he said. Adedire called on the state government to constantly work on providing enabling environment for investors, pointing out that as challenging as it, Lagos State remains the choice destination for investors in Nigeria. “Unarguably, Lagos State creates more investment opportunities than any other states in the country. As such, the government should leverage on this by ensuring improved investment conditions in the state. “To the stakeholders and by extension all Lagosians, we must all choose to uphold the sanctity of the state. We must thrive to bring the state to a place of sanity. We should have the mindset that the state belongs to us all; with this, we won’t contravene planning regulations, environmental rules, traffic rules and other statutory guidelines.” “We won’t take laws into our hands by fermenting violent and destroying public facilities. Both the state government and stakeholders must admit that the interest of the state should always be greater than personal or political interest at any given time,” Adedire said. On what the government is not doing well right now, the renowned town planner pointed out that government is supposed to be a service provider and not a profit oriented organisation, urging the authority to reduce the cost of services “Government at any level should be rendering services to people and not focused on making money off the people,”he said. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 