The Police in Ondo state has dragged five pastors of the Whole Bible Believer Church, Ondo, before an Akure Magistrates’ Court over alleged kidnapping and unlawful harbouring. The pastors include, David Anifowose, 64, Josiah Peter, 49, Stephen Olawale, 51, Blessing John, 60 and Gbenga Ayembo, 56, and they were arraigned on a 10-count charge bordering on kidnapping and unlawful harbouring but pleaded not guilty to the charges. The police prosecutor Augustine Omhenimhen told the court that the pastors conspired together to commit felony, kidnapping and unlawfully imprisonment of some children of one Elizabeth Reuben and prevented their parents to have access to them. According to the prosecutor, the pastors also took custody and harboured the wife and children of one Patrick Olaniyan and blocked access to them. Apart from this, he told the court that the accused persons unlawfully lured and harboured one Priscilla Olorunyomi and prevented her from embarking on her educational pursuit. Omhenimhen said the accused persons unlawfully deprived the church members of their freedom against their will and also placed them in a dehumanizing environment which made them prone to diseases. The accused persons were also accused of assaulting, resisting and willfully obstructing Inspector Rotimi Ogunji while on lawful duty and also charged with unlawfully taking underaged girls from the protection of their parents without their permission. The defence counsel, Oladele Ayoola prayed the court not to remand the accused persons in order to file the bail application. But in his ruling, Magistrate O.R Yakubu ordered that the accused persons be remanded in police custody and adjourned the case till July 18, 2022. It will be recalled that security operatives at the weekend arrested the pastors of the Whole Bible Believer Church where 77 church members were allegedly camped at the underground apartment of the church. The members were said to be waiting for the second coming of Jesus Christ on the instruction of Assistant Pastor Peter Josiah. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend….Ondo Church saga Five Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital….Ondo Church saga Five How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports…Ondo Church saga Five   