The Director-General of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila, has led other representatives of NLRC and Elrae Technologies, to pay a courtesy visit to the Director-General of National Lottery Authority, Ghana, Mr Samuel Awuka. The visit was a major part of the preparation for the launch of the Nigerian National Game. The visit according to Gbajabiamila, availed NLRC and Elrae Technologies the opportunity to understudy the Ghanaian National Game, which had been existing for the past 60 years. Gbajabiamila while speaking further added that the Nigerian delegation visited some of the facilities in Ghana. He maintained that the delegation engaged in some progressive discussions on how to collaborate for the ultimate interests of both Nigeria and Ghana and also, witnessed the live draw of Ghana’s national game. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike  The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 