National Vice Chairman, North West of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Salihu Lukman has said the ruling party has no plan to exclude any religion or ethnic group in its administration. The immediate past Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum made the clarification amidst the criticisms trailing the single faith ticket arising from the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s choice of a fellow Muslim, Kashim Shettima as his Vice Presidential candidate. He spoke with newsmen last night shortly after a meeting of the leaders of the North West zone of the party. While he admitted that concern raised by Nigerians of the Christian faith, particularly the umbrella body, the Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN) was genuine, Lukman maintained that no religion or ethnic group should feel isolated. He said:” I think we need to be very honest to ourselves. It is true that people have concerns and those concerns are not being dismissed. To the best of my knowledge, all competent party leaders have acknowledged the concerns. When you make a decision, certainly some people will be at the receiving end of the outcome. Our party, the APC, is not working to exclude any category, whether in terms of religion, ethnicity or any group. ” We have taken the decision to produce candidates and they are the ones we saw at the unveiling yesterday (Wednesday). They are about the Nigerian project, not a fake one. That is the emphasis and I think, as a nation, we need to look much more positive. That I am Salihu Lukman doesn’t mean I am against a Festus or a Bankole.” On the agenda of the meeting of the APC North West zone, Lukman said they met “to review the situation in the party at the zonal level. The main issue is to really step forward in the business of reconciling aggrieved members in each state. What we agreed to do, moving forward, is to have state-level committees that will meet with all party leaders and aggrieved party members with a view to reconciling all stakeholders. That will be done before the commencement of the campaign for 2023 general elections.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket  Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Safety tips to observe when boarding a ride from a ride-hailing app In order to ensure your safety when next you board a ride, here are safety tips to observe when boarding a ride on ride-hailing apps…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Secure your social media accounts from hackers with these tips It is no longer news that a lot of social media accounts are being hacked daily. It is so painful to have built a strong social media presence and eventually lose it to the hands of social media hackers. These tips will guide you on how to protect your social media accounts easily without struggle…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Things to look out for before starting a business Starting a business can be tasking and tiring, but proper planning and strategy help to make it easy. A business without standard planning would fail sooner or later. If you desire to start a business, then this article might just be for you..Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Striking a balance between your 9-5 job and your side hustle Managing your 9-to-5 office work with your business can be a huge task and tiring, but money must be made to live far above poverty. This is your ticket to freedom in the nearest future. You can balance managing both without one hindering the other with these…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket Little or no work experience? Here’s what you can do Are you a recent graduate with little or no job experience? Do you get negative feedback from organisations due to your little experience? Here are few things that you can do to gain the needed work experience useful for your CV and of course your dream job…Tinubu/ Shettima ticket 