The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), has released the names and images of 69 suspected Boko Haram members who escaped from the Kuje Custodial Centre in Abuja during the Tuesday night attack by terrorists. The Service has accordingly declared the 69 suspects who escaped from Medium Security Custodial Centre, Kuje, wanted and appealed to the public to volunteer information that could lead to their recapture. NCoS had revealed that a total of 879 inmates including Boko Haram members, escaped from the Correctional facility when gunmen attacked the Custodial Centre with explosive devices and set the inmates free. Public Relations Officer, NCoS, Umar Abubakar, in a statement on Wednesday disclosed that 443 of the escapees have been recaptured, bringing the total number of inmates in the facility now to 578. Abubakar said: “We are under intense pressures to recapture all the escapees including the 64 Boko Haram members. Investigations are going on at all levels of the country’s security architecture to unravel the circumstances surrounding the attacks, especially as Mr President expressed reservations and disappointment in the intelligence community. “The biodata, as well as photographs of insurgents who escaped, is being compiled and we are enlisting the services and collaborations of religious leaders and community leaders within and outside the FCT to recapture the escapees. “The approach being adopted. I cannot give you the details at the moment. But, we are not leaving anything to chance. Hopefully by the end of work today, I will update you on the numbers of inmates recaptured,” he said. Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, when he visited the facility on Wednesday morning, said the attackers headed towards the direction where Boko Haram suspects were kept. He disclosed that after the attack none of the 64 Boko Haram suspects in custody could be located. He said: “The prison is accommodating about 994 inmates and over 600 escaped. Many people have been recaptured and brought back to prison. Maybe by the close of the day, more will have been captured and returned.” “I think everything is under control. The people who came to do this activity, from the records, we believe they belong to a particular group. Most likely, they are Boko Haram members because we have a sizeable number of Boko Haram suspects in detention, and presently we cannot locate any of them. I think they are about 64 in the prison and none of them now is available they have all escaped,” he said. The NCoS while releasing the names and photographs of the escapee inmates with Boko Haram or terrorism cases stated: “The following are faces and names of inmates with Boko Haram/Terrorism cases who escaped from Kuje Correctional Centre during the jail attack on 5th July 2022.  “If you see any of these people, or have useful information which may lead to their recapture to any law enforcement agency nearest to you. We guarantee to keep your information anonymous.” ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…Kuje jail attack NCoS Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…Kuje jail attack NCoS How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports…Kuje jail attack NCoS If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her…Kuje jail attack NCoS 