A landlord at Lekki Phase I, Eyenkorin community in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, on Sunday reportedly set his own house on fire. Tribune Online gathered that the man cited frustration from his wife as the reason for his action. The incident that reportedly happened on Sunday at about 10:30 am, was noticed by one of the neighbours, identified as Mr Kola. It was also gathered that it was the neighbour who quickly alerted officials of the state Fire Brigade about the fire outbreak. Speaking on the development, the Director of Kwara State Fire Service, Prince Falade Olumuyiwa, said that the men of the service came on time to save the situation from getting out of hand. “The prompt response of the officials of the Kwara State Fire Service helped to eliminate the ravaging fire on time and also prevented it from escalating to other buildings. “According to the report, the man said he deliberately sprayed his own three bedroom flat with petrol and then set it on fire due to his wife’s high frustration,” he said. He also urged members of the general public to be more vigilant in their homes or offices. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend…   Kwara landlord sets house on fire… Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital…  Kwara landlord sets house on fire… How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports…  Kwara landlord sets house on fire… 