The presidential candidate of the Labour Party(LP) in the 2023 general election, Mr. Peter Obi has commended the vice president of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo for trusting the Nigerian healthcare professionals for his leg surgery. Obi then urged Nigerian leaders to borrow a leaf from Osinbajo and patronise local healthcare services. The former governor of Anambra State who disclosed this on Tuesday via his verified Twitter account said the only way Nigerian leaders can restore confidence in local healthcare is by investing and making use of the healthcare system. ” His (Osinbajo) choice of following through the medical rehabilitation process in Nigeria is commendable. As Nigerian leaders, we must restore confidence in our healthcare delivery institutions by patronising and investing robustly in them.” Obi prayed for the quick recovery of the vice president who has just been discharged from Duchess International Hospital  in Lagos where he had undergone leg surgery. “My prayers & thoughts are with my dear elder brother,  @ProfOsinbajo, as he is discharged from the hospital after his successful surgical operation. I sincerely wish him a quick and full recovery.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… 