Air Peace has announced plans to extend flight operations to Guangzhou, China and Mumbai, India, with scheduled flight operations in July 2022. The airline has also revealed that it was set to commence operations in Israel. Spokesperson of Air Peace, Stanley Olisa, who dropped the hint on Tuesday, July 5, 2022, declared that these new destinations were further testimony to the airline’s determination to connect Nigerians seamlessly to other parts of the world and deepen socio-economic ties between Nigeria and both countries. The airline will be launching its initial one weekly flight to China on July 13, 2022, and two weekly flights to India later this month, as it hopes to increase frequencies when operations garner momentum. While stressing how Air Peace’s entry into both countries would strengthen their bilateral ties, Olisa noted that China and India were not new terrains for the airline saying: “Guangzhou and Mumbai are not new terrains for Air Peace as we have operated a number of special/evacuation flights into both cities in the past. So, we are very familiar with the airspace and plans to launch in Tel Aviv, Israel, are in top gear. This is also not a new space for us as you know, we have operated flights to and from the country. “Air Peace is unflinchingly committed to reducing the air travel burden of Africans, and we will continue to grow our route network as well as modernise our fleet strategically. Air Peace has accomplished so much in just seven years of operation, as we now have a network of twenty domestic routes, seven regional routes and two international destinations, including Dubai and Johannesburg, which we launched in 2019 and 2020 respectively”, Olisa asserted. Reiterating The airline’s resolve to continue providing peaceful and strategic network connections, in line with its no-city-left-behind mantra, which the airline is aggressively implementing, Olisa added that the airline also had in the works two other African destinations- Malabo in Equatorial Guinea and Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Air Peace expand operations to Asia…  Air Peace expand operations to Asia… 