If your life will count you must understand you are born for a purpose. “Having a purpose is the difference between making a living and making a life. “ Tom Thiss You are alive to execute a divine agenda. This understanding is foundational and fundamental to making your life to count. This perspective of knowing you are alive by the deliberate design of God will not only boost your self-esteem but also make you know your life has meaning. “What you do in your life is only ever as good as why you do it. That why, or purpose, is defined in almost all dictionaries as the “…reason for existence.” When we apply the powerful concept of purpose to our lives and organizations, they transform. Nothing becomes meaningless; everything becomes a stone on the path to delivering our reason for existence to the world.”  Zach Mercurio Purpose is a critical issue. “The purpose of life is a life of purpose.” – Robert Byrne God is not a respecter of persons – if He has purposes for others, then He has for each of us too. Jeremiah was an outstanding prophet in his days and his purpose was clearly revealed by God. “This is what God said: “Before I shaped you in the womb, I knew all about you. Before you saw the light of day, I had holy plans for you: A prophet to the nations – that’s what I had in mind for you.” Jeremiah 1.4 – 5 Paul is no doubt one of the most prominent people in the New Testament. His life had great impact and till today his life is still “speaking”. See how he spoke of himself. “But even before I was born, God chose me and called me by his marvelous grace. Then it pleased him to reveal his Son to me so that I would proclaim the Good News about Jesus to the Gentiles. When this happened, I did not rush out to consult with any human being. Galatians 1.15-16. God is a God of purpose. He does nothing without purpose. You and I are created by God hence we are creatures of purpose. Your purpose was predetermined before you were born. Your purpose predates you and it behoves you to discover it.  “Thank you for making me so wonderfully complex! Your workmanship is marvelous how well I know it. You watched me as I was being formed in utter seclusion, as I was woven together in the dark of the womb. You saw me before I was born. Every day of my life was recorded in your book. Every moment was laid out before a single day had passed.” Psalm139.14-16. We must resolve to live a life of purpose as that is the key to making our lives count. “Definiteness of purpose is the starting point of all achievement.” W.Clement Stone  TO BE CONTINUED  FOR ENQUIRIES/COMMENTS PLEASE SEND EMAIL TO charismokola@yahoo/com ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 