To meet its customers’ demands, Nigeria’s Dana Air has introduced additional flights on its Lagos and Abuja route network. According to the image-maker of the airline, Mr Kingsley Ezenwa, the introduction of the additional flights was strictly based on popular demand, the desire to meet the growing demand, and the need to follow through with its strategic route expansion. “The additional Abuja to Lagos flights will operate at 12:40 pm, 7 pm, and 8.10 pm, while the Lagos to Abuja will be at 2.30 pm, 5 pm, and 6.30 pm and with these additional flights, our customers can rest assured that we will always have convenient, optional flight times on the Lagos and Abuja routes. “We are consolidating our network, providing competitive fares, a seamless travel experience, and a reliable schedule for our guests and this expansion will be across the network, as we take delivery of more of our B737 aircraft very soon. “We want to be available to our guests at suitable times across the network and our growth has been consistent, meticulous and commendable and we want to keep it that way for our loyal customers who have kept us going”.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 