What will the world say about you? History is a record of what people did, not what they believed. People may not care about your faith, your dreams or your intentions; humanity will only reckon with what you did while you were here. As a person who has encountered the grace and the power of Jesus Christ, what will you do with that grace and power? Paul declared that the grace of God was not bestowed upon him in vain – he utilized the grace: 1Corinthians 15: 9 – 10 For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me was not in vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Paul put the grace of God to productive use; he labored. He preached. He traveled. He prophesied. He confronted agents of evil. He solved physical and spiritual problems. He worked and earned a living; he did not make himself a liability to others. What have you been doing with the grace of God in your life? To what productive use have you put your faith in Jesus Christ? It is an important question, because the Lord Himself expects you to put His grace into productive use. That was why He said we shall do greater works than He did while on earth (John 14: 12). That was why He told us the parable of the talents (Matthew 25: 14 – 30), in which He showed us that we are stewards of divine endowments, and that it is important that we multiply the talents given to us. In John chapter 15, He also told us that He is the vine, and the Father is the husbandman. He warned that the Father would remove every unproductive branch. He also promised that every branch that abides in Him shall bear much fruit; and that as they do, the Father shall prune them so that they can bear even more fruit. These words of Jesus call our attention to the imperative of fruitfulness in the kingdom of God. All followers of Christ are expected to be fruitful. Dear believer in Jesus Christ, the world has no regard for empty confession of faith; rather, the world is interested in the actions you take to demonstrate that you are an ambassador of Jesus Christ here on earth. Will you get up and show them Jesus Christ in actionable, productive ways? There are so many problems in the world; God sent you to solve some of them. Get up, get busy, and be God’s instrument of positive change in this needy world. Shine the light of Christ through your actions. Show the love of God through your actions. Do something positive to showcase the power of Christ to brighten this dark and dying world.  Concluded ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country.  “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 