The police in Edo State have killed a suspected kidnapper along Iyuku Road by Imeke Junction, along the Benin-Auchi Road. A statement Sunday by the Edo State Police deputy spokesperson Jennifer Iwegbu said that the suspect was shot dead by the police on Saturday July 9 while on routine patrol. Iwegbu, an assistant superintendent of police, disclosed that other members of the criminal gang were wounded and took to flight. She explained that a corpse of a man on black mask and suspected to be one of the hoodlums was discovered by the police during bush combing along that axis after the shoot out, adding that a locally made pistol was discovered on the deceased. She reiterated the Edo State Commissioner of Police Abutu Yaro unalloyed commitment towards ensuring a peaceful and habitable space for Edo people. According to her, Yaro called for the spirit of patriotism by availing the Command with credible information which will be speedily treated with high level confidentiality. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports.  If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  