As Muslim Faithfuls across the globe prepare for Eid-El-Kabir celebrations, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has assured all citizens and residents of the state that government would continue to guarantee the freedom of worship and association as enshrined in the constitution. This is as he also sued for peace in the country to enhance stability and growth. Wike made the call via a message signed by his Special Assistant Media, Kelvin Ebiri, congratulating Muslims on the Eid-El-Kabir celebration. The Governor wished all Muslim faithful across the country happy Eld-el-Kabir urging them to always emulate the lifestyle of Prophet Mohammed and stressing that Prophet Mohammed symbolised peace and tolerance. He prayed for peace and wisdom in solving the challenges facing the nation, especially the insecurity, and urged all Muslim Faithfuls in the state to remain peaceful as they join their counterparts all over the world to celebrate Eid-el-Kabir. The Governor, who reminded Muslims of the significance of the celebration which is selfless sacrifice, total commitment and loyalty, enjoined them to first consider the interest of the nation before any other. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital.  How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  