The new president of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Archbishop Daniel Okoh, has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to put a stop to the rising cases of insecurity in the country. Okoh made this charge, during his acceptance speech after he was returned elected as the new president of CAN, on Thursday, by the General Assembly of CAN after the formal validation of Okoh’s election, which also marked the end of the leadership of outgoing president, Dr. Samson Supo Ayokunle. He said: “While thanking the President and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), for his efforts to combat terrorism and banditry, I would like to appeal to His Excellency to end the bloodletting, kidnapping and general insecurity in all the geo-political zones of the country. “I believe that government can do more to secure the lives and property given all the modern technology within its reach.” According to the new CAN President, it has become imperative for the Christian body to respond appropriately to national issues, adding that the organisation would continue to participate actively and effectively in nation building. “We are coming in at the time that all of us in the Christian faith, believe that some section of political leaders are not sensitive to the diverse nature of our population when certain decisions are being made,” he added. Okoh emerged through the recommendation of the Electoral College which was constituted to screen and suggest candidates for the offices of the president and vice president, respectively, in line with the provisions of the 2021 CAN constitution, as amended. The new president, who is also the General Superintendent of Christ Holy Church International, Onitsha, secured all the 259 votes from delegates who participated in the body’s 12th General Assembly. He is expected to serve a single term of five-years. The outgoing president, Ayokunle, encouraged his successor to show love to the people irrespective of their shortcomings. “The people will annoy him, make him angry, and may not even appreciate him, but he must continue to seek the good of the people,” Ayokunle advised. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country.  “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 