More than half of female billionaires inherited their wealth either by family ties or by divorce. (A research according to Forbes) You may be familiar with the common saying that “most interesting stories are not about those who had it easy.” I’ll be sharing an interesting story of a young woman who seemingly had it easy. Lola was already a graduate at 21, from one of the prestigious universities in Nigeria. She bagged a first-class degree in Business Administration, a field she had always dreamed of and had wanted to build her future around. Just a few days after posting her resume to the official email addresses of a countless number of multinationals in the city of Lagos, she got an offer from a firm that was willing to pay a whooping sum of $2000 to a young graduate – probably because of her grades and how she›s proven to be useful, even while she was still a student. Lola could not contain her joy as the job offer was with several other juicy and mouthwatering bids which she will be entitled to, upon her acceptance of the role she was to take up at the firm. One bid that influenced and fueled her decision to accept the offer was that she will be placed on a scholarship to obtain a master›s degree at one of the ivy league universities in the United States, six months into the job. When she was much younger, she would usually pride herself on how she frequently would love to make it to the news headlines as well as make exploit in the corporate world, just as one of her beau ideals – Folorunsho Alakija. Everything was playing out to her as some sort of fairy tale and stories she had always seen in movies. Yes, she had the dreams and aspirations, but she never would have thought it was all going to play out this soon. Lola is the only female child of her parent’s three children. Being a young woman who is unnerved at how women were treated and seen in her immediate environment, she was accultured Time soon flew by and she was set to bagging a master’s degree in business administration at one of the top universities in the world. It’s a year already and she was set to graduate as one of the best graduating students in her set. She couldn›t be more proud of her feat in a short while. She got hundreds of hearty wishes from family, friends, associates, and well-wishers. Just as you could tell partying is one thing Yoruba people no dey use play. Mrs. Ifelaja (Lola’s mom) had already reached out to her friends who have been deliberating for weeks on a surprise welcome and graduation party for Lola.  She arrived in Nigeria to be greeted by her fun-loving and dramatic mother who had planned and hosted a party to celebrate her daughter’s feat, after a two-week vacation in the States. Everything happened so quickly and she was set to resume work the following week. This time, to be greeted with a top-up in her salary and a brand new Toyota Venza car. At 24, Lola is already a young woman who may be considered or tagged as successful. She owns a luxury apartment in an expensive area in the city of Lagos and could afford her needs and just about anything she wanted as well as to go on vacation anywhere she wanted. Mrs. Ifelaja on the flip side feels tensed and perplexed about her daughter›s achievements which are centered around if any man was going to marry Lola, as most men could be intimidated by women who seem to be very successful. She was a bit relaxed as she would usually console herself with; “she is still quite young. She should be off the market in a few months.” However, this is not always the case, as she would get so worried sometimes and would force herself to place a call through to her daughter asking if she was going to bring a man home soon. Lola on the other hand would laugh so hard over the issue, and would always find a way to switch the topic and her mom’s mind off the issue. Work, on the other hand, has not been very nice to Lola as she has deadlines to beat and some insane targets to meet. She seldom thinks of any other thing asides from work and is usually very busy even on her days off work. Is this all there is? (To be continued next week.) ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 