The use of gas cylinders has become prevalent in today’s world and the reasons for this are not far-fetched since it is more economical, faster, efficient, safer, and environmentally friendly. Regardless of the advantages associated with the use of gas, the issue of gas leakage has also become a common feature in our society.  Gas leakages are typically caused by natural wear and tear, poor installation of appliances, faulty wiring, or a general lack of maintenance. To know how to prevent gas leakage which leads to a gas explosion and consequent loss of lives and properties, you should read this article to the end. To prevent gas leakage, it is important to always ensure that the gas regulator is tightly closed after use. This is because a gas regulator that is not tightly closed may cause gas to escape from the hose attached to the appliance or spread out from around the seal. So, it wouldn’t be a bad idea if you check more than once to ensure that your gas regulator is closed after use. And do not leave this delicate task to your children or younger siblings no matter how good they are with the use of the gas. No matter how conversant you have become with the use of gas, please resist the urge to transfer or remove gas from a cylinder especially abandoned ones. Cylinders often contain a residual amount of gas, so trying to transfer the gas from one cylinder to another can lead to leakage. Thus, do not attempt to remove gas from a cylinder before disposal because it can result in leakage which may lead to a fire outbreak, injury or even death. When a cylinder is no longer needed, return it to your local dealer because they will be able to safely recover the remaining gas or purge the cylinder. In order to prevent gas leakage, always make use of certified technicians for all your installations. Poorly installed appliances have been said to be one of the leading causes of gas emergencies at home. Thus, whenever you need to install new appliances, ensure they are only installed by licensed and trusted experts that understand the basics of working with natural gas.  Another way to prevent gas leakage is to make use of durable pipes, especially for individuals with industrial gas cylinders. Making use of durable pipes will help guarantee safety. Also, do not wait till your pipes are worn out before you change them. Regular maintenance of all gas appliances and cylinders is another way to prevent gas leakages. Your  gas appliances need not get faulty before you see the need to repair or maintain them. To ensure regular maintenance of your gas appliances, you can fix a particular time in a month for your technician to come check and service your appliances as due. Read why experts advise you to check your gas cylinders every 14 months. By all means, avoid the use of old, abandoned or expired cylinders. No matter how cheap these cylinders are, resist the urge to get them. A cylinder might have been abandoned because of one problem or the other, so making use of such cylinders not only puts you at the risk of gas leakage but other dangers as well. Another way to prevent gas leakage is through the use of gas detectors or alarms. This can be used both at home and in industrial settings. The need for gas detectors cannot be overemphasized as they make it easy to recognize gas leakages. It’s not in all cases that our nostrils will be able to detect these leaks, so installing gas detectors or alarms in your home or other areas is sure a good way of preventing gas leakages. To avoid a case of had I know, ensure to observe the steps discussed in this article on how to prevent gas leakage. In all, always remember that your safety should be of paramount importance to you. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 