Popular streaming platform Netflix crashed due to the very high number of fans trying to watch Stranger Things after the highly anticipated release of the final two episodes of season four. The overwhelming influx of viewers pushed Netflix beyond its capacity, leaving thousands of furious subscribers with tech issues. It was reported that more than 13,000 users complained of errors on the platform just moments after the episodes launched on the streaming service. The show’s fourth instalment had already set the record as the No. 1 English-language series on Netflix after the first seven episodes were released on May 27. Stranger Things 4 Volume 1 racked up 930.3 million hours of streaming viewership in its first 28 days on Netflix, breaking a record previously held by Bridgerton, another platform original series. Given the initial success of Stranger Things 4, it should come as no surprise that dedicated fans anxiously counting down the new episodes overloaded Netflix. The entire platform was down Friday and returned a message telling subscribers ‘this page isn’t working.’ Another message instructed viewers: ‘Please try again later.’ Netflix resolved the streaming issue within half an hour, reports indicate, but not before livid fans aired their frustrations out on Twitter. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. 