JESUS revealed about our participation in heaven, helping his disciples to understand that if there is anything they should think about or desire, it is heaven. He told his disciples that he is on his way back to the father in heaven. He desired that those who believe in him should also be in heaven to behold his glory. We will consider this topic under 3 sub headings: The departure of the only begotten son to heaven; The destiny of believers and The dedication of overcoming saints for heaven In John 1:18, only the only begotten son has declared God who no one has seen. I pray you believe so you don’t perish and have everlasting life in Jesus name. In John 17:1 Jesus prayed that he be glorified. Christ is eternal, he had been there before the world was formed. He knew his time of departure had come and so he prayed for the believers as he departs for heaven. Jesus is gone back to heaven and he has gone to prepare a place for you. Jesus came to seek and save those that are lost ; to sacrifice himself, to convey the love of God to sinful humanity and also to raise sons for God and ambassadors who will continue the work he had begun. John 4:17, Jesus gave a summary of the conclusion of his mission. Having concluded the assignment, he was ready to be received up into heaven. We come to Point 2. The destiny of obedient sons in heaven.  Your destiny is in heaven because you are saved and sanctified. I pray we all make heaven in Jesus name.  John 17:24. Jesus is in heaven and here he prays that those who believe in him will also be where he is. Read also John 12:24. He says those who over protect their lives, he will lose it but those who serve and follow him, they will be with him in heaven. There are enough mansions to go round all who believe in and serve him in heaven. Anytime things are hard, you have a challenge, tell the devil, things are going to change because when he shall appear, I will be like him. You don’t excuse sin and this is because only those who keep themselves pure will be like him. 1 Peter 1:2 tells us what we need to be like him. These are those who obey the truth, rejoice in the truth and delight in the truth. They spread and defend the truth. We must always obey and live a life that glorifies God in all things. Not being unequally yoked together in marriage with an unbeliever is one of them and other such sins. The dedication of overcoming saints to the Lord is the 3rd and final point here. In John 17:11 Jesus prayed for the saints who will overcome. I pray for you today, you will not be lost in Jesus name. Wherever you are reading this, I pray you will not belong to perdition in Jesus name. He will keep you. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act. According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 