The Federal High Court in Ebonyi has again declared the rescheduled People Democratic Party’s (PDP), primaries in Ebonyi invalid and recognised Dr Ifeanyi-Chukwuma Odii as the authentic gubernatorial candidate of the party for the 2023 polls. It would be recalled that the party rescheduled and conducted a fresh primary on June 4 and 5 after an initial primary held on May 28 and 29 and produced Odii as a governorship candidate. The rescheduled exercise of June 4 and 5 produced Senator Obinna Ogba as another gubernatorial candidate of the party. The Presiding Judge, Justice Fatun Riman, said the repeated primaries in the state were invalid as it was not monitored by the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “The rescheduled primaries was not done in line with the law; we, therefore, recognised the primaries of May 28 and 29 that elected Odii as governorship candidate in Ebonyi and that is our judgment. However, an Appeal Court in Abuja on Tuesday ordered for trial de novo of the suit in respect of the Ebonyi PDP guber ticket by the court of the first instance, Federal High Court, Abakaliki. The order was made to enable the appellant, who claimed to be an interested party to be heard pursuant to the principle of natural justice expressed in the legal maxim, “audi alterem partem” which enjoins that the other party must be heard. Mr Mudi Erhenede, counsel for Odii, popularly known as Anyichuks thanked the court for the judgement. “The court has revisited the suit for a fair hearing and ruled that the rescheduled PDP primaries remain invalid. “So, the court in his wisdom has ruled that the business of June 4 and 5 primaries was not done in line with the law and of course recognised the party primaries of May 28 and 29,” Erhenede said.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend.  Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.  