Bandits invaded Tabanni village of Birnin Gwari local government area of Kaduna State on Friday afternoon and kidnapped six people. This was disclosed by the Chairman of Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU), Ishaq Usman Kasai in an interview. He said, “it has been confirmed that three married women, one teenage girl, one adult, as well as a seven-month-old baby were kidnapped.” According to him, the bandits came to the village without firing any shot and took the victims away, saying, “many of the villagers were not even aware of what happened in their community.” The community leader lamented that both the old and new Tabanni villages are always under threats of bandits attacks. “Many of our people in these two communities as well as the surrounding areas have become IDPs. Every day people are leaving their homes,” he said. He expressed dismay over the plight of the people, saying, “the information we got was that since 6.30pm under the rainfall people mostly women and children were trekking to safety zones.” Kasai remarked that “we will not stop appealing to government to come to the aid of the IDPs as many are homeless.” As at the time of filing the report there was no statement from either the government or the police.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship…  Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… Safety tips to observe when boarding a ride from a ride-hailing app In order to ensure your safety when next you board a ride, here are safety tips to observe when boarding a ride on ride-hailing apps… Secure your social media accounts from hackers with these tips It is no longer news that a lot of social media accounts are being hacked daily. It is so painful to have built a strong social media presence and eventually lose it to the hands of social media hackers. These tips will guide you on how to protect your social media accounts easily without struggle… Things to look out for before starting a business Starting a business can be tasking and tiring, but proper planning and strategy help to make it easy. A business without standard planning would fail sooner or later. If you desire to start a business, then this article might just be for you… Striking a balance between your 9-5 job and your side hustle Managing your 9-to-5 office work with your business can be a huge task and tiring, but money must be made to live far above poverty. This is your ticket to freedom in the nearest future. You can balance managing both without one hindering the other with these… 