It can be difficult to be separated from those you care about. It doesn’t matter if the separation is temporary or permanent. Change is inevitable. It is a normal part of life, and these changes often take people on different paths. It is normal to miss someone when you are apart. Many situations can cause you to miss another person. How you deal with missing someone depends on why you are separated from them. Some of the reasons are death, breakup, relocation, and so on. It is natural to miss people who are no longer part of your daily life. You can always value those people and experiences while moving on. This article covers things to do if you are missing someone. Do not try to push aside the feelings of missing someone. Work on accepting your feelings.  Allow yourself to feel these things without trying to deny or change them or judging your emotions. This practice can also be helpful for your mental well-being and make it easier to cope with difficult feelings. Quality self-care can go a long way toward helping you feel better during this difficult time. No matter the reason for your separation from someone you care about, it is important to take steps to take care of yourself. Meditating to ease stress, and scheduling some alone time are just a few things you can try. You should also make sure you are eating healthy meals, getting enough sleep, and getting regular exercise. If your basic needs are met, it would be easier to manage difficult feelings. Gratitude is expressing appreciation and thankfulness for something in your life. When you are missing someone, you can focus on feeling grateful for your relationship with that person. You can spend some time writing about how you appreciate having them in your life, even if they are no longer present. This practice boosts overall well-being and improves feelings of happiness.  Keeping yourself busy will help you avoid becoming mired down in negative thoughts. You can pick up a new or old hobby. This can be a way of learning a new skill while managing feelings of loss or pain until they pass. Also, things like participating in a sport, working out, seeing a movie, reading a book, and so on can help keep your mind off the person you are missing. If the person you are missing is still part of your life, you can reach out to them and tell them how you feel. There are ways to keep your relationship close if you can’t be together. Some of these are virtual meetings, interacting on social media, talking on the phone, writing emails, and so on. Missing someone you can not be with is normal, and that does not mean dealing with these feelings is easy. There are things you can do to find relief from your longing and sadness, as the case may be. I hope you found this article helpful. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 