Did your job just transfer you away from the city your partner lives in?  Are you considering starting a relationship with someone who lives far away from you? Or you just find yourself thousands of miles away from your partner and you are sceptical about how to keep the relationship going and growing stronger? Then this may just be the perfect read for you. Maintaining a healthy relationship may be tasking sometimes, as challenges often come in different ways to impede the relationship of two lovers. But it is even more difficult when the relationship is a long-distance one where lovers are separated by thousands of miles and only get to see each other once in a blue moon. Some of the challenges that accompany long-distance relationships include conflict, trust issues, lack of intimacy, miscommunication, insecurities, jealousy, cheating, and loneliness. Ensuring a healthy long-distance relationship may not be a bed of roses, but it is achievable and not beyond the reach of partners who are committed to making it possible. In this article, we will be looking at some of the ways you can maintain and get the best out of a long-distance relationship. When it comes to long-distance relationships, communication is as important as love itself. Unlike close distance relationships where partners get to see each other physically frequently, the luxury of that is absent in long-distance relationships which makes constant and adequate communication germane. Healthy communication helps to build and strengthen the love between partners. You should at all-time be intentional about staying connected with your partner. Phone calls, text messages, and face-timing with your partner help to bridge the gap between the two lovers. In a world filled with wicked people, trusting someone might be likened to a big risk that doesn’t guarantee a return on investment. It is even more difficult when the person you are trusting is thousands of miles away from you. However, trusting your partner in a long-distance relationship is a worthy risk that you should take. In the absence of adequate trust, the mind will always be filled with negative thoughts about your partner which may subsequently affect your relationship with your partner and signify the beginning of the end of such a relationship. As a result of a long-distance between two lovers, things like trust issues, insecurities, and jealousy pose a great challenge to their love lives. In order to ease these hurdles, it is necessary for you to always reassure your partner about your feelings for them. Never neglect the opportunity to tell them how much they mean to you and how lucky you are to have your partner in your life. This will go a long way in strengthening your love for each other and bringing peace to the mind of your partner.  Regardless of how much you utilise technology, to keep your long-distance going, physical meetings and interactions are still indispensable. Occasionally fix a day to catch up with your partner so as to share a bond and intimacy together. Ensure you maximise the little time you will have to spend with your partner. That time together should be channeled and dedicated towards activities that are capable of increasing the love between you two. Receiving a gift of any sort makes a human being feel good. The feeling is even better when the gift is a nice one and comes from the person we love. Gifts inherently make people feel loved and wanted. Frequently sending a gift to your partner with whom you are in a long relationship will help to solidify your relationship and intensify your love. Examples of gifts you can send include flowers, chocolate, shoes, wristwatches, and so forth. If you find yourself in a long-distance relationship, jumping to conclusions and making quick judgments may be one of your greatest undoings. Rather than making an uninformed assumption that may jeopardise your relationship, you should be willing to ask questions and verify every piece of information before you conclude on them. The changing nature of the environment of mankind has made long-distance relationships a part of human existence. It is a reality that we can’t shy away from. Practising the above tips will help smoothen and maintain a long-distance relationship between lovers who are intentional about safeguarding and keeping their love waxing stronger regardless of the thousands of miles that separate them. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  