The Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA) at its mid year membership induction ceremony held recently in Lagos inducted 151 members into its fold. In a statement signed by the institute’s national publicity secretary and chairperson, Media and Publicity Committee, Mrs Chizoba Anyika, the induction programme was chaired by His Royal Majesty, Oba Rafiu Ishola Balogun,  the Elejinrin of Ejirinrin land; and 58 members, 93 associate members were inducted. The event, which had as its theme: ‘Building Professional Career In The Transport Industry’, saw the inductees take the oath of allegiance upon conferment of membership grades, and were charged to be excellent ambassadors with the obligation to pursue and actualize the mission and vision of the institute. According to the statement, in his welcome address, the president/chairman of CIoTA governing council, Dr Bashir Jamoh, informed all that the prestigious professional membership of the institute would be given to deserving men and women with enviable socio-economic activities at the mid-year induction ceremony. The chairman of the occasion His Royal Highness Oba Rafiu Balogun, who spoke through his representative, a governing council member, Dr Dom Obiajulu, disclosed that the present administration is working to consolidate the institute’s mandate through the implementation of policies that will bring significant improvement from the foundation laid by its founding fathers. In his remarks, the Commissioner for Transportation in Lagos State, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, said that the state is committed to meeting the transport needs of a rapidly growing population through the introduction of te Lagos Bus Services Limited.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… 