The Federal Government on Friday indicated that the terrorists who attacked the Correctional Centre, Kuje in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) succeeded because they had superior firepower. The Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammed Dingyadi, made the assertion while briefing correspondents on the outcome of the National Security Council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said the security personnel deployed to the facility did their best to repel the attack but were subdued by the superior weaponry of the terrorists. The minister revealed that some of the assailants were killed. Asked why the terrorists could not be stopped, he said: “You see, these kinds of things, they happen and I want to assure you all those who are supposed to play a role in ensuring that the attack is neutralized did the best that they could to neutralize it. “I think what helped them was the number of people they came with and the superior weapons they came with. “And because nobody anticipated it, the few people could not withstand the number that they came with. I think that’s what happened.” He, however, assured me that the investigation into the incident will continue. More details to come later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. Security agents were overpowered  Security agents were overpowered If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Security agents were overpowered  Security agents were overpowered  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 