THE National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) is collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and other agencies to verify the Better Education Service for All (BESDA). Others in the partnership are the Federal Ministry of Education, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) BESDA is a programme-for-result, funded by the World Bank to support increase in access to basic education by raising equitable access for Out-Of-School Children (OOSC), improve literacy and strengthen accountability for results in basic education in Nigeria. As an Independent Verification Agency (IVA), the NBS would be visiting selected schools across the country to verify the authenticity of records kept by implementing schools at state level and also provide data for the assessment of four Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs) on which states would be rewarded. This particular exercise, which is the second Phase, would be conducted in 17 BESDA focus states, comprising all the states in the North East, North West, Niger State in the North Central, Oyo State in the South West, Ebonyi state in the South East and Rivers in the South South. The BESDA Verification Exercise would kick-start with a four-day Training of Trainers (TOTs) in Abuja from July 26 to 29. This will be followed by Training of Enumerators (TOEs) from August 1-5, 2022 in the 17 BESDA focus states. The trained enumerators, who are also referred to as NBS verification agents, would be deployed across various states in the country to collect data for the purpose of the verification exercise. The NBS management has therefore called on the states concerned to accord the verification agents all the necessary support and information they may require. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE The PDP spokesman recalled how the opposition party had on various occasions alerted that the APC government had ceded sovereignty over a large portion of our country to terrorists, “many of whom were imported into our country by the APC.” He further stated: “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists as non-state actors boldly showed their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje Prison break, some of whom were former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism act against our country. “Nigerians can equally recall the confession by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai that the APC government knows the plans and whereabouts of the terrorists but failed to act.  According to Ologunagba, about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022 “as the criminals continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP had always drawn attention.” “This is not politics; this is about humanity and leadership, which leadership sadly and unfortunately is missing in our country at this time,” he said. The PDP added that it is appalled by “the lame response by the apparently helpless, clueless and deflated Buhari Presidency, wherein it told an agonizing nation that President Buhari “has done all and even more than what was expected of him as Commander in Chief by way of morale, material and equipment support to the military…” “This is a direct admission of incapacity and failure by the Buhari Presidency and the APC. At such a time, in other climes, the President directly leads the charge and takes drastic measures to rescue and protect his citizens. “In time of adversity, the President transmutes into Consoler-in-Chief to give hope and succour to the citizens. Painfully, Nigeria does not have a President who cares and can stand as Consoler-in-Chief to the citizens. “It has now become very imperative for Nigerians to take note and realize that the only solution to this unfortunate situation is to hold the APC government accountable. We must come together as a people, irrespective of our political, ethnic and religious affiliations to resist the fascist-leaning tendencies of the APC administration. Ologunagba called for an urgent meeting of the National Council of State to advise on the way to go over the nation’s worsening insecurity. “Our nation must not fall. The resilient Nigerian spirit and ‘can-do- attitude’ must be rekindled by all to prevail on the President to immediately and without further delay, accede to the demand by the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians to convene a special session of the National Council of State to find a lasting solution since the President has, in his own admission, come to his wit’s end,” the PDP spokesman declared. Osun Husband Killer Commits Suicide Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Essential Documents You Need When Applying To Study Abroad On Scholarship Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP Latest terrorist video: Presidency has admitted Buhari’s failure ― PDP 