Music is an important part of the human life. We listen to it everyday whether intentionally or unintentionally. Sometimes even in our conscious state, a particular song may come to mind and we find ourselves singing along. In this article we will talk about the five main benefits of listening to music. After series of studies and research ,findings suggest that music aids sleep because of the role it plays in regulation of hormones in the body.Some of these hormones are dopamine which is released at pleasurable moments and cortisol which is released at moments of stress. Music triggers the release of dopamine and decreases the level of cortisol thereby putting people at ease and aiding sleep effeciency. Many people love to listen to music during their workout sessions but it may surprise you to know that there are scientific reasons why the two blend so well. Study has found that music distracts you from the pains and fatigue you encounter during a workout session thereby pushing you to do more. Also, study has shown that music induces movement in the listener ask me how. It basically excites the area of the brain that is responsible for movement literally making you want to move. Researchers also took a look into how music could help improve creativity. Participants of the research were divided into two groups. One group was made to work while listening to happy music while the other group was made to work in silence. According to the results, the group that listened to happy music showed more flexibility in their thinking and found more solutions to their tasks than the other group. There is no other explanation needed as you can tell from the experiment that music improves creativity. As we previously stated, Music reduces the level of stress hormones(cortisol) in the body which in turn
calms the nervous system. Study has recommended slow music as anxiety arrestors. The relaxed tempo will help moderate your body’s functioning to bring you down from that heightened nervous state. Music also offers an easy distraction or diversion from any competing internal or external stress stimuli. ICYMI: To earn from streaming, artistes must do more than just ‘make’ music — Wale Ozolua While listening to music may bring greater health benefits, creating it can be an effective therapy too.
Study carried out shows that creating or listening to music can be an effective way to strengthen you emotionally. Lets take for example, a person is suffering from a heartbreak. It is almost impossible to let go of the feeling and emotions.The physical and mental act of making music can allow you to get those feelings out of your body and mind.  Music exerts a powerful influence on human beings. It can boost memory, build task endurance, lighten your mood, reduce anxiety and depression,
wave off fatigue, improve your response to pain, and help you work out more effectively.  