SKYWAY Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) PLC has announced the appointment of two new non-Executive Directors during the company’s 12th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos. The appointments according to SAHCO was to show its “commitment in building a diversified Board,Management team and staff with expertise that spans industry circles to cater for its growing list of clientele being a public listed Aviation Ground Handling company that is involved in Passenger Handling, Ramp Handling, Cargo Handling and all other aviation Ground Handling related services.” The two directors Laila Jean St. Matthew-Daniel and Dr Bukola Bello Jaiyesimi were appointed to replace Barrister Chike Ogeah and Mr Ariyo Olutoye who resigned their appointments in January, 2022. Laila Jean St. Matthew-Daniel started her schooling at Our Lady of Apostles in Lagos, she went on to St Louis Grammar School, Ibadan, for her “O” Levels, and then Queens College, for her ‘A’ Levels, before going to the United Kingdom (UK) for graduate studies at the Cripple gate Institute/London Guildhall University. She began her career in the corporate world in the UK, and later Nigeria, before taking the entrepreneurial step in 1983, by opening one of the ‘first’ indigenous Furniture Manufacturing Company, during the 1980’s as a result of Government’s ban on the importation of furniture. As one of the premier female furniture manufacturers in the early 80’s to early 90’s, she initialised private training programmes for artisans in the furniture industry to boost Governments’ National Directorate of Employment’s empowerment efforts, and pioneered seminars for public enlightenment on relationship between stress and furniture ergonomics apart from winning various awards for unique designs. Dr. Bukola Bello Jaiyesimi Is an avowed Pan-Africanist, lobbyist, developmental and legacy strategist with a passion for mankind and institutional development. She started her academic journey in 1982 at St Luke’s Model School, Lokoja, she proceeded to Command Secondary School, Kaduna in 1988. Dr. Bukola Bello Jaiyesimi gained admission into the University of Abuja where she bagged a Diploma in Banking and Finance in 1995. She relocated to study in Canada in 1998 and proceeded to Queens School of Business, Ontario, Canada and graduated with a BSC in Marketing in 2001.  She went further to London School of Business and Finance, UK and she graduated with MBA in Entrepreneurship at The Institute of Transformative Thoughts and Learning Doctoral Research Centre (ITTL-DRC). She is also a recipient of the following; Metropolitan Institute of Business and Management – Special Executive Masters in International Business Law (LLM)-2013, CGUI, Boston, Massachusetts – Doctoral Research 2017, Chartered Institute of Public Relations, United Kingdom – Diploma in Public Relations 2018. Furthermore, in her quest for excellence, she has so far authored three books, mentored myriad of persons and institutions across the continent of Africa and held regular seminars, meetings, retreats as well as trainings and institutional program reviews. She has won many awards both locally and internationally and across different sectors.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE ‘39.6 percent of unmarried university students use sexual performance-enhancing drugs’ EXPERTS say that the use of sexual performance-enhancing drugs is an emerging public health issue that requires a university-wide health advocacy campaign to stop among unmarried students in Nigerian universities… Tips on building a happy and healthy relationship  Building a happy relationship entails setting certain relationship goals. These goals revitalise your relationship and also help you spice things up. You might be surprised that these little efforts can go a long way in helping you build a better and outstanding relationship… Safety precautions to observe at the airport In order for you not to fall victim of criminal elements who disguise as fellow passengers or dishonest airport staff, here are safety precautions you should observe when next you visit the airport… 