From time immemorial, misunderstandings have been part of human relationships. Regardless of the nature of the relationship, there will sometimes be moments where both of you will disagree on something. However, what truly matters is not who was at fault or what led to the fight in the first place but how you handle the situation and win back the love of your partner as a failure to quickly repair the damage caused by these misunderstandings and win back the love of your partner may signify the beginning of the end of such relationship. In this article, we will take a look at some simple tips that may help you win back the love of your partner after a misunderstanding  As the saying goes “Apologising doesn’t always mean you’re wrong and the other person is right. It just means you value your relationship more than your ego.” Regardless of who is right or wrong, after a fight or misunderstanding, try to offer your sincere apology to your partner and let them know how much you regret your actions and how you are willing to ensure it doesn’t repeat itself ever again. By doing this, it means you have chosen your relationship over being right or wrong  The importance of effective communication in relationships can never be overemphasized. It is as important as love itself. To get back on track after a fight or misunderstanding with your partner, you should try to communicate with them about how you feel about the situation rather than giving them silent treatment. Although it may be hard to communicate with your partner after a fight, you should endure doing so as it will help remind your partner how much you still care about them.  Another way to win back the love of your partner is to get them a nice present. We all love to be appreciated with gifts and surprises. It will even be more appreciated by your partner when such a gift is coming at a time when things are not too rosy between the two of you. Think about what your partner has been longing to get for a while and surprise them with it. It could be gadgets, hair, wristwatches, bags, shoes, clothes, and the likes.  Fight and misunderstandings depreciate the value of love and create a gap between you and your partner. In order to fill this gap, you must ensure to constantly remind your partner how much you love them and how much they mean to you. This will help soften your partner’s heart and make it easier for you to win their love back.  Spending time together will be of immense help in helping you to gain the love of your partner back after a fight. Visit nice places together and use the opportunity to reflect on your past and talk about your future. Some of the ideal places you can visit together are malls, eateries, tourist centers, beaches, and so forth.   In order to prove a point after a fight or misunderstanding, we sometimes end up saying things that may worsen the situation. To avoid this, you have to be meticulous and be watchful of the things you say, to prevent saying things that will hurt your partner for a long time.  ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE 