Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen struck on Monday and kidnapped Mr Godwin Aigbogun, the chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ugu Ward, Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State. The Edo State Police spokesperson, Jennifer Iwegbu, said that the police has received a report of the kidnap of the APC chieftain from the former Edo State Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Godwin Erhahon of Ologbo-unu village in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State of the abduction of Aigbogun of the same village. According to the report by Erhahon, the chairman was believed to have been kidnapped and whisked into the bush by hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers. Iwegbu said that on receipt of the information, a team of operatives from the command’s cack team, Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crime Unit swung into action, mobilised to the scene and embarked on aggressive bush combing with the aim of rescuing the victim unhurt and possible arrest or killing of the suspected kidnappers. She added that while the detectives are establishing the location of the kidnappers, the Commissioner of Police, Edo State Command, Mr Abutu Yaro enjoined the people to remain calm so that police efforts to rescue the victim and possible arrest of the kidnappers would not be jeopardized.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Woman’s Corpse, Unconscious Man Found Inside Office In Aba After Four Days A woman was found dead and another man unconscious in an office located at No 7, Factory Road off Eziukwu Bus Stop, Aba, Abia State at the weekend. Nurse Holds Doctor Hostage In OAU Teaching Hospital, Resident Doctors Plan Strike The association of resident doctors (ARD) at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTHC) Ile-Ife has concluded plans to go on strike over what they termed recurrent harassment of doctors at the hospital. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. 