The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned “in the strongest possible term,” the spate of insecurity in the country especially the audacity with which terrorists ravage the nation unchallenged “under the rudderless All Progressives Congress (APC) administration.” Reacting to the Tuesday night attack on the medium-security Correctional Facility in Abuja in a statement on Wednesday by Hon Debo Ologunagba, its National Publicity Secretary, the main opposition party noted that the simultaneous terrorist attacks on the advance convoy of President Muhammadu Buhari in Katsina State as well as the Correctional Facility in the nation’s capital, underscore the collapse of the nation’s security command and control structure under the failed, ineffective and uncoordinated Buhari-led APC administration.” The statement added: “The terrorist attack on President Buhari’s convoy in his home State of Katsina as well as the ferocious invasion and the freeing of hundreds of terrorists and criminals from the Kuje Correctional Facility further confirm that Mr President has lost control of the security of the nation and that Nigerians are no longer safe under the APC. “The escalated spate of terrorism across the country has heightened apprehensions of complicity by the APC to open up our nation to more terrorist attacks with the view to stall the 2023 general elections. “The failure of the APC administration to act on the intelligence provided by the Directorate of State Services (DSS) which on Tuesday, July 5, 2022, reportedly warned of an impending attack on the Kuje Correctional Facility gives credence to fears by Nigerians of complicity at very high level of the APC administration. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “This is in addition to further reports that soldiers deployed to the precinct of the Kuje Correctional Facility and who had become familiar with the terrain were redeployed 24 hours before the terrorists attacked.” The PDP demanded that the APC government should come clean on who ordered the reported redeployment of soldiers and who failed to act on the intelligence provided by the DSS. It added: “Nigerians can recall the public confession by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, at the wake of the bloody Abuja-Kaduna terrorist attack that the APC-led administration knows the whereabouts and the plans of the terrorists ravaging our nation but deliberately refused to act. Nigerians will also recall how APC leaders publicly romanced and paid money to terrorists. “It is rather distressing that President Buhari appears helpless without any decisive and concrete steps taken to stem the tide of terrorist attacks in our country. “Even more curious is that President Buhari continues to retain Mr Isa Pantami as Minister of Communication and Digital Economy to head and coordinate this very critical sector in the fight against terrorism in our country in spite of Isa Pantami’s confession of affiliation to terrorists. “With the sequence of events in the last 48 hours, it is clear to Nigerians that the APC government headed by President Buhari has failed in the basic purpose of government which is to secure life and properties of the citizens.  “Given the urgency of the security situation in the country, it has become imperative that President Buhari convenes an emergency Council of State meeting for a review of the prevailing dangerous security atmosphere in our country.” The PDP also called on the National Assembly to pass a vote of no confidence on the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Patimi and insist on his immediate removal as a minister. “The National Assembly should also immediately summon the Security Chiefs for a thorough investigation on the circumstances resulting in the failure of our security system,” the party demanded, urging Nigerians to remain at alert and keep hope alive “as the nightmare of the APC administration will be over by May 2023.” Obasanjo Turns ‘Keke NAPEP’ Rider, Carries Passengers In Abeokuta APC complicit in Kuje Prison attack ― PDP How To Detect Fake Bank Alerts APC complicit in Kuje Prison attack ― PDP 