IN the name of Allah, Most Gracious, Most Merciful. The Qur’an 2:196 says, “And complete the Hajj or `Umra in the service of God. But if ye are prevented (from completing it) send an offering for sacrifice such as ye may find and do not shave your heads until the offering reaches the place of sacrifice. And if any of you is ill or has an ailment in his scalp (necessitating shaving) (he should) in compensation either fast or feed the poor or offer sacrifice; and when ye are in peaceful conditions (again) if anyone wishes to continue the ‘Umra on to the Hajj he must make an offering such as he can afford it, he should fast three days during the Hajj and seven days on his return making ten days in all. This is for those whose household is not in (the precincts of) the Sacred Mosque. And fear God and know that God is strict in punishment.” Any act of worship in Islam requires the Muslims to follow the rules and regulations as contained in the Holy Qur’an and the Sunnah (practice) of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAW). Such divine laws are universal. Such norms are total and final. Such doctrines are unchangeable. Such patterns of worship are the same and have remained so for about one thousand, five hundred years of Islam, when Prophet Muhammad (SAW) came to institutionalise the acts of worship for us. Such is the uniqueness of Islam. That is why the religion of peace requires every Muslim to seek religious knowledge so that we may know how to worship Allah (SWT) (Qur’an 9:121). Or how do we practicalise the belief in the unity and indivisibility of Allah if we do not know how to worship Him? The Holy Qur’an, Al-Jathiyah, 45:13 says, “And He has subjected to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth – all from Him. Indeed, in that are signs for people who give thought.” Prophet Muhammad (SAW) enjoins that “Arrogance is disdaining the truth (out of self-conceit) and contempt for people” (Sahih Muslim). Thus, we should seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave in our acts of worship, so that we may fulfill our faith and actions with Almighty Allah. The Qur’an Fatir, 35:28 says, “It is those of His servants who have knowledge who stand in true awe of Allah. Indeed, Allah is Almighty, Most Forgiving”. However, the performance of Hajj is not an exception in such laid down rules. It requires the donning of hajj garments (Ihram) from the prescribed stations (Al-Miqat) leading to the Holy City of Makkah where the hajj rites are performed. The pilgrims first make a spiritual bath (Ghusl) before putting on the two white seamless garments of Ihram (izar and rida) for men. The women are to put on sewn plain garment of any colour that covers all parts of their body except the face and the hands. Pilgrims must dress very simply to demonstrate that everyone is equal before Allah. For those who are performing interrupted Hajj (Hajj Al-Tamattu) as most Nigerians, the intention of performing Umrah (lesser hajj) is made, as they will put on Ihram for hajj separately. For those who are combining Umrah with hajj (Hajj Al-Qir’an), the intention for both Umrah and Hajj is made and will not put off the Ihram till the end of the hajj rites. And for those performing Hajj alone (Hajj Al-Ifrad), they make intention for the performance of Hajj alone at this point (Miqat), provided they have brought a sacrificial animal with them, and to remain in Ihram until the Day of Sacrifice i.e., 11th day of Dhul-Hijjah. But if not, should come out of Ihram after performing Umrah. As the pilgrims approach Makkah, the Talbiyyah is recited that they have come to answer the Call of Allah. It is ‘Labbayka, Allahuma Labbayka, Labbayka La Shereeka Laka Labbayka. Innal-hamda wan-ni’mata laka walmulk La shareeka Lak”. It means, “Here I am at Your service, O Lord! Here I am. Here I am. No partner do You have. Here I am. Truly, the praise and the favour are Yours, and the dominion. No partner, do You have’. This is uttered aloud by men and silently by women because of the stimulating effect of their voices.  The guests of Allah make seven circuits of the Ka’bah mosque as they arrive in Makkah, beginning at the Black Stone with Takbir (Allahu Akbar) and ending each circuit at the same place. This is just the role of the Black Stone (Hajara Aswad). It is out of ignorance that they misconstrue the role of Hajara-Aswad (the Black Stone). The Muslims go to Makkah in glory of Allah, not to kiss a stone or worship a man or semi-divinity. Kissing or touching the Black Stone at the mosque is an optional action, not an obligation or a prescription. It is in fact done out of respect and love for Prophet Muhammad (SAW), who laid the stone at the foundation of the Ka’bah when it was reconstructed. He did that to restore peace among the tribal chieftains that had serious dispute over who was to have the honour of restoring the stone, just because it is the only solid stone remaining from the antique structure of the sacred edifice. It is the case of a broken structure becoming the cornerstone of the building. While making the seven circuits (Tawaf) round the Ka’bah mosque, the pilgrims praise Allah and make supplications to Him with any words they please. It is preferable to end each circuit with: “Rabbana, Atina fid-duniya Hasanatan, wa fil-akhirati Hasanata Waqina Adhaba n-nar” – “And there are men who say: ‘Our Lord! Give us good in this world and good in the Hereafter and defend us from the torment of the fire!” (Qur’an 2:201). On the completion of the seventh circuit, two units (rakats) of salat is observed behind the Station of Ibrahim (Maqama Ibraheem) but at any distance from it which is convenient within the Sacred Mosque. This is followed with the climbing and descending from the hills of Safa and Marwah seven times. The Sa’i (hastening) is increased between the green posts, but to walk at a normal pace before and after. The Praises of Allah and supplication are also made during this important act. God says in Qur’an 2:158-160, “Behold! Safa and Marwa are among the Symbols of God. So, if those who visit the house in the season or at other times should compass them round it is no sin in them. And if anyone obeyeth his own impulse to good be sure that God, is He Who recogniseth and knoweth.” Those who conceal the clear (Signs) We have sent down and the guidance after We have made it clear for the people in the book on them shall be God’s curse and the curse of those entitled to curse. Except those who repent and make amends and openly declare (the truth) to them I turn; for I am Oft-Returning Most Merciful.” The Umrah (lesser hajj) is completed with the shaving or cutting of hair, and the washing with Zam-zam water. After this those performing interrupted hajj (Hajj Al-Tamattu) will put off the Ihram and resume normal life until hajj proper. God reassures in Qur’an 2:125-129, “Remember We made the house a place of assembly for men and a place of safety; and take ye the station of Abraham as a place of prayer; and We covenanted with Abraham and Isma`il that they should sanctify My House for those who compass it round or use it as a retreat or bow or prostrate themselves (therein in prayer). And remember Abraham said: ‘My Lord, make this a city of peace and feed its people with fruits such of them as believe in God and the Last Day’. He said: ‘(Yea) and such as reject faith for a while will I grant them their pleasure but will soon drive them to the torment of fire an evil destination (indeed)!’ And remember Abraham and Isma`il raised the foundations of the House (with this prayer): ‘Our Lord! Accept (this service) from us for thou art the All-Hearing the All-Knowing.  Our Lord! make of us Muslims bowing to Thy (Will) and of our progeny a Muslim people bowing to Thy (Will) and show us our places for the celebration of (due) rites; and turn unto us (in mercy); for Thou art the Oft-Returning, Most-Merciful.  “Our Lord! Send amongst them an Apostle of their own who shall rehearse Thy Signs to them and instruct them in Scripture and wisdom and sanctify them. For Thou art the Exalted in Might the Wise.’” May Almighty Allah accept the Hajj rites of the Muslim pilgrims to Makkah and Madinah. Ameen. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 