Operatives of the Niger State Police Command have foiled a robbery incident in Suleja local government area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun stated this in a press statement issued and made available to newsmen on Saturday in Minna. Abiodun explained further that, “Saturday being 30/07/2022 at about 1300hrs, suspected armed robbers of about five in number attacked a GSM store along Morocco road, Suleja shooting sporadically with pistols and carted away some numbers of handsets from the store.” He said, “Upon the receipt of information about the incident, police operatives attached to Suleja Area Command were quickly mobilized to the scene while the robbers hurriedly drove off in a Peugeot 406 car with Reg. No. ABJ 467 GX and after a hot chase towards the military checkpoint by Zuma rock, the robbers abandoned the vehicle and took to their heels into the forest.” He, however, assured that the police and military operatives were on the trail of the fleeing robbers with the view to arrest the hoodlums. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Niger State Command, CP Monday Bala Kuryas, has urged members of the public not to panic as security operatives are on top of the situation adding that  further development will be made available to the public very soon. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira 2023: Kwankwaso Will Not Be Deputy To Obi —NNPP 100% Natural Solution To Finally End Premature Ejaculation, IncreasesSmall Cucumber and Bedtime Lasting Power in 7days... CLICK HERE TO GET IT (Before It Disappears!!!) 