Proverbs 31 is the 31st and final chapter of the Book of Proverbs in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. Verses 1 to 9 present the advice which King Lemuel’s mother gave to him, about how a just king should reign. The remaining verses detail the attributes of a good wife or an ideal woman. If you carefully read this book without trying to invade your religious background; you will notice that an ideal woman (single or married) has the ability to be a successful entrepreneur, be empowered, and build wealth. I have tried to give an insight into this chapter vis-à-vis our current day.  There are more than seven businesses here, identified by women entrepreneurs. Such as clothing and fashion business, food business, importing and exporting, merchandise (stock, production, retail, etc), farming, agriculture, properties, and real estate. Over the years, women have been recognized to be more industrious than men. In fact, some studies have shown that Banks are more willing to give business loans to women-owned businesses because they will always pay back. In the words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him. What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows? Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroys kings. It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink: – Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.  Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts. Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more. Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction. Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy. Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.  She seeks wool, and flax, and works willingly with her hands. – “This speaks to women in the fashion industry”, someone who knows how to seek and find business and necessary resources for herself and her home. She is like the merchants’ ships; she brings her food from afar. – “She does the import, export, and food business” She rises also while it is yet night, and gives meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. – “The woman is skillful in-home management” She considers a field, and buys it: with the fruit of her, hands she plants a vineyard. – “She buys properties (real estate business), she farms, plants, create gardens and also into Agric business” She girds her loins with strength, and strengthens her arms. She perceives that her merchandise is good: her candle goes not out by night. – “she is good with business” She lays her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the staff. She stretches out her hand to the poor; yea, she reaches forth her hands to the needy. –“She is a philanthropist” She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. – “She does clothing business” She makes herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. – “She makes her husband famous and respected because of her business acumen” She makes fine linen, and sells it, and delivers girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing, and she shall rejoice in time to come. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. – “She is a wise woman and a good speaker” She looks well to the ways of her household and eats not the bread of idleness.- “She is  hardworking” Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excels over them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Proverbs 31. Married men who take financial power from their partners under the pretense of control have no idea what they are missing and the gold mine they refuse to recognize in their partners. Women are creatures of creativity and the ability to multitask. There is a popular saying, “give a woman a house, she will turn it into a home; give her a seed she will turn it into a child. I am not in any way encouraging the male partner to go to sleep and expect the woman entrepreneur to carry the burden of wealth creation. For women who are still looking for ways to empower themselves and create wealth. Read up and start one of these businesses. Feel free to discuss your baby steps with me. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY