The PDP consensus candidate for Oyo South Senatorial District, Mogaji Joseph Olasunkanmi Tegbe was on a consultation tour to the 3 Local Government Areas in Ibarapaland and was met and received by a huge crowd of supporters. Tegbe was received by party leaders, party executives, and other stakeholders across the 7 towns of Ibarapa land. At the three local governments where he held meetings with the party leaders and supporters, the Ibadan Mogaji officially expressed his Senatorial ambition to leaders, elders, and the overwhelming crowd of party faithful in attendance. The Elders expressed joy at having a man of Tegbe’s caliber join the PDP and confidence in his competence. They affirmed that someone with his pedigree and experience would be an asset to the National Assembly and the PDP. Mogaji Tegbe promised to live up to their belief in his competence. He pledged not to disappoint them and their expectations, adding that he is strongly encouraged to support the party to victory and ensure that the people of Oyo South Senatorial District experience greater dividends of sterling representation. As a mark of better things to come, the Senatorial hopeful presented food items and cash empowerments to widows drawn from all wards in Ibarapa land Mogaji Tegbe was accompanied on the visits by Chief Ojelabi, PDP Senatorial Chairman; Hon (Dr) Adebayo Adepoju, PDP candidate for Ibarapa North/Central Federal Constituency; Hon Sola Fakorede, a PDP Chieftain from Idere; Pastor Adisa Jimoh, Hon Bolanle Agbaje; Barr Fatai Akinsanmi; Chief Remi Ladotun; Erelu Olayinka Jayeoba, Hon Hafiz Oladejo; Hon Olusegun Ajayi, Hon(Mrs) Akomolafe Iyalaya, PDP Senatorial Women Leader; Taofeek Oladejo, PDP Senatorial Youth Leader and many others.  In a related development, supporters of a front-line aspirant Dr. Nureni Adeniran vowed to work for the success of Mogaji Tegbe and Governor Seyi Makinde in the 2023 general elections. Handing over his political structure to Mogaji Tegbe, Dr. Adeniran who had earlier dropped his ambition for the sake of party unity and cohesion, noted that his coordinators from all nine local government areas and ninety-nine wards within the Oyo South Senatorial district would henceforth adopt Tegbe and work tirelessly for his emergence in the general election In his remarks, Tegbe lauded Dr. Adeniran’s political goodwill and understanding, promising to accommodate all his supporters in terms of dividends of democracy, adequate benefits, and quality representation. It would be recalled that Tegbe, defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the All Progressives Congress (APC) and was subsequently adopted by the stakeholders in the party in the state as the consensus candidate for Oyo South Senatorial District. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY