The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) has charged the people of Southern and Middle Belt regions to reject Atiku Abubakar and other presidential aspirants of northern extraction. The forum declared that with the emergence of Atiku as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, “the unity and peace of Nigeria means little or nothing to a segment of the nation’s political elite.” These submissions are contained in a statement signed by Senator Bassey Ewa-Henshaw, PANDEF/South-South; Amb. Okey Emuchay, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide/South East; Comrade Jare Ajayi, Afenifere/South West; Dr Isuwa Dogo, Middle Belt Forum (MBF) and Hon. Ken Robinson, Acting Coordinator SMBLF and made available to journalists late Sunday. Titled “A Brazing Affront on the People of Southern Nigeria by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)”, the forum expressed dismay that in spite of its numerous warnings, the time-honoured rotation and zoning of high political offices between the North and the south by political parties to strengthen national cohesion was jettisoned. “The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum has described the emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party as a brazing affront on the people of Southern Nigeria by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “SMBLF recalls that following the release of the guidelines for the 2023 general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Elders and Leaders of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt, under the aegis of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum, made unequivocal proclamations on the need for the presidency to be devolved to Southern Nigeria in 2023, in respect of the time-honoured practice of the rotation and zoning of high political offices between the North and the South by political parties as a way of strengthening national unity, peace and harmony.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “SMBLF further recalls that several engagements were held with various stakeholders across the length and breadth of the country on the subject to foster understanding, mutual respect and oneness. “The 17 Southern Governors also in a declaration after their meeting in Asaba, Delta State, in May 2021, backed the rotation of the presidency to the South in 2023. “Sadly, it appears the unity and peace of Nigeria mean little or nothing to a segment of the nation’s political elite. “This was evidenced in the PDP special convention, which was held on Saturday, 28th May 2022, where certain candidates from the North were pressured, coerced, and even intimidated to step down for former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who eventually emerged as the flag bearer of PDP, in utter derision of the established principle of zoning and rotation of power between the north and south. “Undoubtedly, the singular motive is to perpetuate the hegemony of the North given that President Muhammadu Buhari, a Muslim from the North and of Fulani origin will be completing his full tenure of eight years by this time next year. “SMBLF, therefore, totally REJECTS the candidacy of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and calls on our people of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt as well as all true lovers of peace and unity NOT TO VOTE for him or any other Northerner in the 2023 Presidential election, in the interest of posterity,” the forum admonished. SMBLF further urged all aspirants for the office of president from Southern Nigeria to “shun the conceited attitude of individualism and self-confidence, and work collectively to achieve the shared objectives.” It called on “all politicians of Southern extraction to refuse the position of a running mate to any Northern Presidential candidate, which will equally be viewed as subjugating their people to political slavery.” MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details