The remains of Deborah Samuel, who was killed by a mob over alleged blasphemy in Sokoto, have been laid to rest. A source revealed that she was buried in her hometown, Tunga Magajiya, in Rijau Local Government Area of Niger State. Well-wishers and relations who witnessed the burial of the 200 level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education expressed their sadness over the loss of one of their own. Tribune Online gathered she was buried around 6:30 pm at the Christian cemetery in Tunga Magaiya. It was gathered that the youths in the town protested that her burial ought to have been carried out by the Sokoto State government, but her family insisted that they would carry out the burial themselves. It was said that her uncle, Emmanuel Maaji who is the pastor of ECWA church in the village, led the prayers at the cemetery before she was lowered to mother earth.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… IPOB Not On UK’s List Of Terrorist Organisations — British High Commission The British High Commission has debunked reports circulating in the media and online that the UK Government has added the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to the UK’s list of terrorist groups or organisations banned under UK law.  These reports are untrue, it declared. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details