The only woman contestant in the Saturday primary election for the Oyo North senatorial district on the platform of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), Mrs Adebola Adeboyin, has promised to represent her district well especially the woman, noting that they were the ones that voted more. She made the promise during a chat with journalists at her Igboho residence in Oyo State, on Thursday, in preparation for the Saturday primary election of the party. According to the renowned banker, the people of the senatorial district, mostly women, were being cheated in the past, adding that it was for women to liberate themselves and let the indigenous have the opportunity. “As the only woman among the three contestants, I have what it takes to represent the people, and as a mother, I know what children want from their parents, I’m using this opportunity to call on the delegates and party chieftain to support her, adding that she will not disappoint them. ”She described other contestants as knowledgeable, experienced and well capable of the post, but women should be given the opportunity this time around,” she said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Oyo North: I will represent women well if given mandate ― Adeboyin Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Oyo North: I will represent women well if given mandate ― Adeboyin HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details