Popular Nollywood skit maker, Abdulgafar Ahmad Oluwatoyin popularly known as Cute Abiola has been unveiled as the brand ambassador for R O and Co Properties. The unveiling ceremony which took place on Friday, held at the head office of R O and Co properties in the city of Ibadan, Oyo State. Speaking at the event, the chairman of  R. O and Co, Mr. Ridwan Olayiwola said “the company decided to sign on the one of the best male Skit maker in Nigeria because of his dynamism, and his hardworking disposition which we see as one of our business tenets in R O and Co Properties.” You’re welcome to “R O and Co Properties Family, sure our working together will yield great results”, he added We are glad to inform Nigerians that henceforth, Cute Abiola will be our official face for R O and Co Properties,” he said. R. O and co Properties is a privately owned real estate development company operating in Ibadan Oyo State, and Abeokuta Ogun State, Lagos State Nigeria.  R O and Co Properties had successful track records of delivering authentic and rewarding landed properties to over 3000 individuals and 40 organizations. Our success story is not far-fetched; we are transparent, and we keep our word. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details