The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, would seek to clarify the fate of some members of the federal cabinet who were asked to resign but have renounced their political ambitions to remain in government. Those involved are Abubakar Malami (Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice); Pauline Tallen (Women Affairs); Chris Ngige (Labour and Employment), and Timipre Sylva (State, Petroleum Resources). Both Malami and Tallen were physically present at the meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday while Sylva was said to have attended virtually. Briefing correspondents after the meeting, Mohammed had been asked whether the Ministers who the president had already bid farewell to had been re-admitted into the cabinet. He said he could not confirm their status until he conferred with the President as according to him, President Buhari has the final say on their fate. Buhari had directed members of the cabinet intent on contesting elective positions in next year’s election to resign by last Monday.  The directive was followed by a valedictory meeting he had with 10 of the ministers where he bade them farewell and announced that they would immediately be replaced. Six of them complied while four later said they have withdrawn from the political contest as they would like to remain in government. More details to come… IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in the Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details