Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on Friday said that it has arrested a Fulani man, Umar Bello, for allegedly hacking his brother, Abdullahi Bello, to death over a minor misunderstanding. In a statement by the corps’ Public Relations Officer (PRO), Babawale Afolabi, in Ilorin on Friday, he said that the incident occurred at Dogonruwa Area of Woro in Kaiama local government area of the state in the early hours of Friday. While the reasons for the brawl between the two brothers could not be confirmed as of the time of filing this report, it was gathered that the two brothers engaged in a deadly fight, using dangerous objects like rods and cutlass. It was also learnt that one of them became unconscious due to the loss of too much blood and eventually died. “In the early hours of Friday, 27/05/2022, our divisional office in Kaiama received a distress call that two brothers were engaged in a deadly fight, using dangerous objects like rod and cutlass and that one of them has become unconscious due to loss of too much blood. We arrived at the scene of the incident promptly. But the victim of the attack died before he could reach a hospital.” The statement also said that the culprit was later picked up and handed over to the police, “who subsequently arrived at the scene of the incident for further investigations and possible prosecution.  The NSCDC said that the remains of the deceased have been evacuated from the scene of the incident. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NSCDC arrests man. NSCDC arrests man Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NSCDC arrests man  NSCDC arrests man HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details