I have been having a lot of itching in my anus lately. Although there is no pain or bleeding, I am worried just in case this is Pile. Kindly let me know what to do. I am a 35- year old seam mistress. Alhaja (by SMS)  It is not all cases of itching in the anus that are caused by Piles (Haemorrhoids). Apart from Pile, other causes of itching in the anus include; diarrhea, fecal incontinence (leaking stool), parasitic infections, sexually transmitted infections, skin tags as well as bacterial and yeast infections. A visit to your doctor will help you to confirm the actual cause of your ailment. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants  MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details