Mr Bolaji Tunji, former Special Adviser, Communications and Strategy to late Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, has picked up the All Progressives Congress’ Expression  of Interest, nomination forms for the Oyo State House of Assembly. The former Special Adviser, who had initially expressed interest in contesting for the House of Representatives seat to represent Ogbomoso North, South and Oriire Federal Constituency, said he stepped down his bid for the House of Assembly ticket in the interest of the party and based on consultation with the leadership of the APC. Explaining further, Tunji said his decision to step down his ambition was in deference to the new spirit of reconciliation that was embarked upon recently to unify the different groups in the party. “If sacrificing my ambition for a seat in  the House of Representatives is a price I have to pay to pave the way for peace in the Oyo State APC, then it is a small price to pay. What matters is to come together as one and go into the 2023 election with an undivided house. That is the only way we can unseat the usurpers that have taken over in the state,” he said. According to Tunji who is contesting for the Ogbomoso North State Constituency,  the current division in the party in Oyo APC has shown to every one that no one group can do it alone. “ We need each other, it is thus important for all peace-loving APC members to shift from the hard, unyielding stance that has polarised the party at the Wards, Local governments and the State levels.  ” The question we should ask ourselves is whether we are keen on continuing the winning formula of 2019 that earned APC  11 out of the 14 Federal Constituency seats and the senatorial seats from the original two with the defection of Senator Kola Balogun, senator representing Oyo South senatorial seat and the brother of the current Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Lekan Balogun, to the APC.” Tunji appealed for continued support from his constituents, promising that he would give a different meaning to the dividends of democracy, if he secured his party’s ticket and ultimately won the election. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details