Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has congratulated the member representing Chanchaga Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon. Umar Bago, for emerging as the Niger state All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate for the 2023 election at the just concluded primary election held in Minna. Governor Sani Bello in a congratulatory message hailed the credible, free and fair as well as transparent manner the primary election was conducted. He assured Bago of his maximum support to ensure his victory at the general elections so that the party will retain power in not just the state but in the country. The governor urged him to be magnanimous in victory by carrying along all those who contested with him for the overall good of the party in particular and state in general. He commended the electoral officials who midwife the primary election as well as the security agents who were on the ground to ensure a peaceful exercise. The APC gubernatorial primary started yesterday and ended in the early hour of this morning with Umar Bago, a third-time lawmaker at the House of Reps in the nation’s capital winning the ticket of the party with 540 votes out of the total votes of 1060 cast by delegates.  Similarly, Governor Sani Bello congratulated all the winners of the State House of Assembly primary elections of the party that was held yesterday across the 25 local government councils in the state. He enjoined those that couldn’t win the tickets to put party interest over and above personal interest by joining hands with the winners for the success and victory of the party at the 2023 general elections. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Gov. Sani Bello felicitates with Bago for winning APC governorship ticket in Niger Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Gov. Sani Bello felicitates with Bago for winning APC governorship ticket in Niger Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Gov. Sani Bello felicitates with Bago for winning APC governorship ticket in Niger HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details