Spotify took the opportunity to celebrate a crop of African creators who are making their voices heard and, through that, showing the world the vast array of African talent. Dubbed Sounds of Africa, the campaign highlighted six artistes and six podcasters and came to life through a social media campaign in the week leading up to May 25. It all culminated in a night of merrymaking in Johannesburg, South Africa, where some of the creators as well as music industry stakeholders were present. The six podcasters included Kenya’s Mantalk.ke and The Sandwich Podcast, Nigeria’s I Said What I Said and Tea with Tay and South Africa’s True Crime ZA and After School is After School with Sis G.U. The six artistes were Kenya’s Chris Kaiga and Nikita Kering’, Nigeria’s Ladipoe and Preyé, and South Africa’s Nomfundo Moh and Zoë Modiga. The host for the evening was the multi-talented Patricia Kihoro, who kicked off the event with a fireside chat with Jocelyne Muhutu-Remy, Spotify Africa’s Managing Director. In her first-ever interview in the role, Muhutu-Remy shared about the Spotify journey in Africa and how platforms like Spotify can help out African storytelling on the map. A creator panel featuring Eli and Oscar of Mantalk.ke, Jola from ‘I Said What I Said’ podcast and South African artiste, Zoë Modiga reiterated the importance of telling African stories as a way of changing the perceptions of the continent. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Spotify also announced the creation of the Africa Podcast Grant to help highlight voices from the continent. The $100,000 grant will be given to 10 creators that are telling Africa’s story. This fund aims to amplify underrepresented stories and perspectives in podcasting. The party officially kicked off with Blinky Bill, who delivered an electrifying set that got everyone dancing, and a couple of Kenyans in the house even joined him on stage. South African dancer-turned-artiste, Kamo Mphela took the stage right after with a building shaking performance. DBN Gogo was next with an Amapiano set, before the main act of the night, Nasty C took the stage. The Coolest Kid in Africa definitely delivered, ending with his hit song Particular. To close off the night, Juls took to the decks for an Afrobeats set that left everyone wanting more. “This is the first of many initiatives to come. We would like to highlight even more African creators on an even bigger scale, to ensure that the whole world knows that Africa is not just a moment, it is here to stay.” – Jocelyne Muhutu-Remy, Managing Director, Spotify SSA. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Spotify celebrates Sounds of Africa, African creators Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa Spotify celebrates Sounds of Africa, African creators HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details