House of Representatives aspirant for Yewa South/Ipokia Federal Constituency, under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Hon. Kayode Idowu has demanded the conduct of fresh primaries for equity, justice and fairplay. Idowu who maintained that no primaries were conducted in the constituency last Friday called on the leadership of the party to organize fresh primaries with the active participation of all the aspirants and delegates. He stated that what happened last Friday was nothing but a political charade, thereby stating that the only way to win back the confidence of the members is for the leadership to approve the conduct of a fresh election. House of Representatives aspirant stated that delegates were deprived of the opportunity to make their choice in line with the provision of the Electoral Acts. Idowu added that aspirants were denied access to delegates’ lists, arguing that this development contravenes the provision of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Electoral Acts as amended He, therefore, called on the National leadership of the party to ensure credible conduct of fresh primaries in the zone.  Idowu maintained that fake results were allocated to the aspirants without conducting the primaries. According to him: “Under the APC’s constitution, the list of delegates supposed to be known to the aspirants seven days before the primaries election contrary to what transpired in Ogun. “Election is a process. The process is supposed to start with ward congress to elect five ad-hoc delegates. There was no ward congress held to determine the list of delegates to vote. They just handpicked their own preferred candidate. No election in Yewa South/Ipokia Federal Constituency. “APC in Ogun is behaving as if it is the only party in the state as if other parties are not participating. We all know that one of the fundamental requirements of any party is to have a congress that is going to be free and fair. “That congress will produce delegates that will elect candidates for various offices. Ogun State never had that opportunity. APC as a ruling party in the state, if there is anything that has to be done, we should be laying a good example of a good leader. “There should be fresh primaries. The election should be conducted. I reject the declaration. There should be equity, and fairness and nobody should be denied his right to contest.” Idowu maintained. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…House of Representatives aspirant  House of Representatives aspirant Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…House of Representatives aspirant  House of Representatives aspirant MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details