An Osun State Magistrate court sitting in Ilesa, on Monday remanded three criminals in police custody for stealing transformer cables valuing seven hundred thousand naira (N700,000) at Owa Obokun of Ijeshaland, Oba Adekunle Aromolaran’s palace. The alleged suspects whose names were given as Owolabi Abimbola (33), Sulaiman Mutiu (25), Samson Oluwafemi (25), and others now at large facing four-count charges on the committed offence. According to the Police Prosecutor, Inspector Adigun Kehinde, the stolen transformer cables were the property of IBEDC Ilesa branch. He however told the court that the unholy act was perpetrated on May 11, 2022, when the defendants conspired, stole and diverted to their own personal use a transformer cable at the Owa Obokun Palace. Adigun argued that the offence committed by the defendants was contrary to sections 516, 400, 451(6), 383(2) of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol ll Law of Osun State 2002, which saw the suspects pleaded not guilty to the charges brought against them. In his ruling, the presiding Magistrate, A.O Awodele fixed further hearing on the case till May 18th and ordered that the defendants should be kept in Police custody.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…3 docked for stealing.  3 docked for stealing Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…3 docked for stealing  3 docked for stealing MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details