PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Monday tweeted for the first time since the country reversed the ban it imposed on Twitter in June last year. The Nigerian government had imposed a ban on the social media platform after it deleted the tweets of Buhari. The tweets, which referenced the Nigerian Civil War, threatened to deal with those behind insecurity in the “language they understand”. But the Federal Government said the ban was not linked to the deleted tweets. Months after the Federal Government lifted the ban which lasted till early January, Buhari took to the platform to share photos of himself observing the Eid-el-Fitr prayer with the Muslim faith- ful at the Mambila Barracks Parade Ground in Abuja. In a series of tweets in commemoration of Eid-elFitr, the Nigerian leader, who was accompanied by his family and aides, spoke about the fight against insurgency.  “After a period of fasting and reflection, this year, we have cause to welcome the occasion in hope. The battle waged against terrorists who falsely masquerade under the name of Islam is approaching its conclusion,” he said. Meanwhile, the president has saluted the courage and determination of journalists who daily go the extra time, sometimes at great personal risks, to keep society well informed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Lagos Is Second Least Liveable City In The World For 2021 Lagos is the second least liveable city in the world for the year 2021. This is according to the most recent annual ranking put together by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)… FACT CHECK: Did UNICEF Say Blocking Children’s Access To Pornography Constitutes Human Rights’ Infringement? CLAIM 1: A Twitter user claims UNICEF said any efforts to block children from accessing pornography might infringe their human rights. VERDICT: MISLEADING! After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…