The crisis rocking the Imo State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has taken a different twist as youths of the party on Tuesday barricaded the entrance gate of the party secretariat along Okigwe road. The youths are protesting the inability of the party to conduct an election to produce the 3 man Ad-hoc The youths in their large numbers locked the gate of the party Secretariat with a padlock thereby denying party leaders and visitors enter into the party office to carry out their daily activities. The protesting youths were seen displaying different placards with different inscriptions such as ‘No harmonized Ad-hoc list no primary election’, ‘National office should not be a disadvantage to Imo PDP’ ‘Power belongs to the people and many others. A House of Representative aspirant, Ikenga Ugochinyere for Ideato North and Ideato South Federal constituency had earlier secured a restraining order from the court banning the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and PDP from recognizing any delegate list not authenticated by the party and INEC. Speaking during the protest, a PDP youth leader in the party, Emeka Nwokeke stated that Imo PDP is on the verge of collapsing.  He said: “Some of our party leaders have alternative political parties to go to but we the youths of PDP in Imo State have no other party, anybody doing anything in terms of 3 man Ad-hoc delegate without Imo PDP youths is doing so against the interest of our party.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Crisis rocks Imo PDP as youths protest over ad-hoc delegate list Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Crisis rocks Imo PDP as youths protest over ad-hoc delegate list HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details