The Public Affairs Director of the Polytechnic Ibadan, Alhaji Soladoye Adewole has confirmed the death of a Higher National Diploma (HND) student of the institution, identified as Daniel Igunnu who reportedly lost his life during marathon sex with his lover in Ibadan. Adewole confirmed that the incident happened off-campus, precisely, Idi-Ito area. He said the institution is yet to establish the identity of the lady involved. The two lovebirds, as reliably gathered engaged in marathon sex at the deceased apartment in Idi-Ito in the Ido local government area of Oyo State. Our correspondent gathered that the door of the apartment was forced open by the fellow students after waiting for several hours for them to come out. The lifeless bodies of the deceased were seen on the floor while the lady whose identity could not be ascertained at the time of filing this report was met unconscious.  The lady, as reliably informed was rushed to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan for medical attention. Some of the students who preferred anonymity attributed the incident to the use of sex enhancement drugs. However, efforts to reach the Police Public Relations Officer, CP Adewale Osifeso to confirm the incident proved abortive. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details