My elder brother who is 40 years old has become addicted to alcohol. He cannot do without visiting a drinking joint after work every day. Apart from the fact that the habit is affecting his dressing, he talks too much and easily forget things. I want to know how he can be helped. Jimoh (by SMS)  Many people with alcohol use disorder hesitate to get treatment because they don’t recognize that they have a problem. An intervention from loved ones like you can help some people recognize and accept that they need professional help. Managing cases of alcohol dependency can be tough. Because denial is common, the most important thing is to convince your brother that he needs help. Once this is achieved, the next step is to let him see a mental health professional or seek help from a support group such as Alcoholics Anonymous or a similar type of self-help group. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants  MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…Late gospel singer Osinachi’s husband faces 23-count charge MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details