A gubernatorial aspirant under the banner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State, Sani Sha’aban, on Wednesday, in Zaria inaugurated his campaign coordinators in Zone 1 ahead of the party’s governorship primaries. While inaugurating his coordinators on Wednesday in Zaria, he tasked them to reach out to members of the party He also said that if he becomes governor he will tackle poverty, despondency, insecurity, unemployment and marginalisation and how elevate the youths of the state to prosperous heights. He alluded that while power comes, he told his supporters but they have to work hard for it. ‘The youths and women must get up and work hard so as to bring electoral victory Also speaking, a former Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Gideon Zamani, and the campaign coordinator of Dr Sani Sha’aban urged delegates from zone 1 and the rest of the zones to come out massively and vote for Sha’aban during the primaries.  “if Kaduna truly wants justice, equity, fairness and progress, then the right person to vote for is Sani Sha’aban.” He noted that Sha’aban has been tested in politics, administration and business in time, saying, he has paid his dues. “Therefore, it is good for all the delegates to vote for him. Ephraim D. Joshua, Director General, Sha’aban Campaign, also added that Sha’aban is a good leader who would deliver good governance if we all give him support. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. APC guber aspirant inaugurates campaign coordinators in Kaduna MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details