Former minister of Sports and Youth Development, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, has emerged as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Kwara central senatorial district for the 2023 general elections. Abdullahi was elected through a consensus arrangement by delegates at the PDP’s senatorial primary that was held in Ilorin on Monday. According to the national officer that conducted the primary election, Hashim Jimoh, the former minister was announced as the winner, having been returned unopposed. Similarly, a former senator, Rafiu Ibrahim was elected as the PDP’s flagbearer for Kwara South senatorial district. Ibrahim also emerged through affirmation at the primary that was held in Omu-Aran in Irepodun Local Government Area of the state. Chairman of PDP in Kwara South, Comrade Bisi Fakayode, raised up Ibrahim’s hand after the delegates affirmed his election.  In the result for Kwara North senatorial district, a former commissioner under the Abdulfatah Ahmed administration, Prince Adamu Issa Bawa, was elected in a primary election where he defeated Aisha Ahman Pategi. Prince Adamu Bawa from Batonu axis and Hajia Aisha Ahman-Pategi from Nupe axis were slugged it out in the senatorial primary. Speaking with newsmen after his emergence, Abdullahi thanked the PDP stakeholders and the delegates for confirming his as Kwara Central candidate. He also thanked journalists for their support, adding that: “I don’t take your support and that of the PDP’s stakeholders for granted.” Abdullahi assured the people of his constituency of quality representation in the Senate. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.PDP primaries: Former minister, others clinch Kwara senatorial tickets PDP primaries: Former minister, others clinch Kwara senatorial tickets HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details