The National Examinations Council (NECO) has extended the registration deadline for the 2022 Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school-based candidates to midnight on Monday 20th June 2022. The registration period was initially scheduled to close on Monday 30th May 2022. Head of Information and Public Relations division, Azeez Sani, who conveyed this in a statement on Monday, warned stakeholders that there would be no further extension after the ongoing window. “State Ministries of Education,  Principals, Commandants and all stakeholders are enjoined to note that there would be no further extension after that,” he said. The 2022 NECO Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) will commence on 27th June 2022 and end on Friday 12th August 2022. Tribune Online learnt that candidates will be examined in 76 subjects during the examination.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details