The Kogi west senatorial primary election of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday ended in a deadlock as former Senator Dino Melaye polled a total of 88 votes while his opponent, Hon. TJ Yusuf also scored the same number of votes. TJ Yusuf is presently a member of the House of Representatives representing the Kabba-Bunu/Ijumu Federal Constituency. However, a rerun between the two aspirants will be conducted on Tuesday. Meanwhile, in the Kogi central senatorial district of the state, Saliu Salawu Ogembe emerged as the candidate for Okene/Ogori-Magongo Federal constituency, while Aloysius Adeiza Okino emerged as the party’s candidate for the Ajaokuta federal constituency. A former Okehi Local Government Chairman, Abdulmalik Abdulraheem Danga emerged as Adavi/Okehi Reps flag-bearer. In the state House of Assembly primaries, Ovurevu Sheidu Abara emerged in Adavi, while Mohammed Haruna Ganaja emerged in Ajaokuta.  A former publicity secretary of the Kogi PDP, Prince Bode Ogunmola picked the ticket for Ogori-Magongo, while Onivehu Musa Siyaka emerged in Okehi for state assembly respectively. Ajanaku Tijani Umar emerged in Okene II state Constituency. Amongst the contenders for the Senate ticket in Kogi Central are Ahmed Ogembe, Natasha Akpoti Uduaghan, Abdulkareem Salihu, Muhammed Onimisi, Etudaye Muhammed and Mahmud Adamu Attah.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details