Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command, on Tuesday, arrested six suspected cultists of two rival groups, who have been causing breach of peace in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, over a supremacy battle. Nigerian Tribune recalled that one person was hacked to death, on Sunday night, at Quarry road area of the state capital, by hoodlums. In a statement made available to newsmen by the State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said the suspects were arrested following a distress call which stated that some cult members were engaging themselves in the area. Those arrested were identified as Kazeem Ogundairo (aka NEPA); Nasiru Idris (aka Aloma); Ayo Joshua (aka Terry G); Damilare Shogbamu (aka Dhray); Bisiriyu Ibrahim Owoyele and Labulo Jamiu (aka Jay Boy). According to Oyeyemi, the State Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole, upon the receipt of the disturbance news ordered, ACP Bolanle Muritala, to move to the scene and bring the situation under control. It was learnt that some of the hoodlums confronted the Police with dangerous weapons when sighted, while some ran in different directions to avoid being arrested.  At the end of the encounter, the squad succeeded in arresting six persons. The CP had ordered a continuous operation “clamp down” on all known cultists in the state. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details