After taking a long hiatus from the music scene, Europe-based songstress and fashion Icon, Veronique Adaa has returned to the music scene with a banging single, entitled ‘Again’. After much anticipation from fans and numerous music enthusiasts, Adaa did not disappoint as she breezed into the music scene again to remind people of the music talent she is. The song which throws light on life struggles and experiences is an inspirational and motivational sound with relatable lyrical content that has the capacity to raise the hopes of many people out there, especially those who are currently at a crossroads and contemplating giving up. Adaa said her name and craft are new in the music circle as she had taken a few years off the scene to redefine her sound and rebrand in order to thrill her fans better. She added that she has now taken her craft to the international market and her come back is one which many music lovers and listeners never expected. “I am back and this time, I am coming to change the narratives and also to deliver quality and classic tunes. ‘Again’ is out on all music platforms and I want my fans to enjoy it and be motivated,” she said.   IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Veronique Adaa returns… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Veronique Adaa returns… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY