Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has assured his Ekiti state counterpart, Kayode Fayemi that delegates from Osun state will offer him the needed votes at the presidential convention coming up in Abuja. The Osun State governor gave the pledge, on Wednesday, while playing host to Governor Fayemi, one of the aspirants in the race for the All Progressives Congress presidential ticket. Governor Oyetola recalled the sterling qualities of the Ekiti State Governor in his leadership of the platform of 36 States governors in the country, the Nigeria Governors Forum. He described Governor Fayemi as “a great bridge builder, team leader, consensus manager and one of the best sons of Oodua who has led the Nigeria Governors Forum to the satisfaction of all. He said:” He (Fayemi) takes everyone’s problem as his own, this is why in four years we have always spoken with one voice. We pray for you because we believe in your leadership capacity and when the time comes, we pray we’ll be able to pay back the love and kindness you have shown us.” The Ekiti State Governor appealed to the delegates and party faithful not to create enemies for aspirants where none exist because “this struggle is about service and not about self. The biggest thing is for APC to win and South-west to clinch the ticket.” Addressing delegates in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, Governor Fayemi described his visit as homecoming for him as he disclosed that he was born in the ancient city, and lived there for long.  He promised to turn the vast fertile landscape into an agricultural gold mine that would make the state the nation’s food basket. “You may be shocked by my claim of being an indigene, but that is the truth. My father lived the greater percentage of his life here in Ibadan. I was born at Adeoyo General Hospital here in Ibadan. I grew up around Iso-pako, I did my primary school at ICC Primary School at E9, I have a family compound here and I have my own house here in town too. “My parents may have been of Ekiti extraction, but I’ve every right to contest in Ibadan having been born here and lived the majority of my adult life in Ibadan, I can confidently say, I’m a son of the soil and the only Ibadan son in the presidential race. “With my knowledge of Ibadan and Oyo State in general, I have a duty to contribute significantly to its development if elected. I’ll bring my God endowed knowledge and capacity to bear on the onerous task of making Nigeria one of the safest places to live in Africa.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…2023: It is payback period for Fayemi ― Oyetola Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…2023: It is payback period for Fayemi ― Oyetola Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…2023: It is payback period for Fayemi ― Oyetola HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details