To encourage and simplify vehicle ownership for personal use by millions of Nigerians, First City Monument Bank (FCMB) now offers auto loans of up to N30 million at a reduced interest rate. The FCMB auto loan supports acquiring brand new and pre-owned vehicles (popularly known as “Tokunbo”), with N500,000 as the minimum loan amount that a customer can access for repayment duration of up to 5 years. This affirms FCMB’s commitment to improving the social well-being of individuals and enhancing access to credit for a higher standard of living for families. Commenting on the unique value proposition, Divisional Head, Personal Banking of the Bank, Mr Shamsideen Fashola, said, “vehicle ownership is one of the most exciting moments in a person’s life. Yet, many people struggle to save up for a long time to make this dream come true. To bridge this gap, we created a value proposition that is flexible, convenient and empowers individuals, families and businesses to achieve the dream of vehicle ownership. Nigerians can now finance their dream vehicle with an auto loan from FCMB at a low-interest rate with monthly or yearly payment options depending on their income. We, therefore, urge the populace, including, but not limited to salaried individuals, to take advantage of this opportunity to fulfil their vehicle ownership dream”. FCMB Auto Loan empowers qualified Nigerians to part-finance the purchase of brand-new and pre-owned vehicles while spreading the repayment between one and five years. The loan, which is dependent on the type of vehicle to be purchased, is open to salaried individuals and self-employed Nigerians. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the number of registered vehicles in Nigeria is 13 million. However, vehicle ownership in the country has been declining because of increased prices. This is due to foreign exchange and importation challenges, leading to a drastic reduction in purchasing power and sales decline in the auto industry. A purpose beyond profit commercial banking institution, First City Monument Bank is a member of FCMB Group Plc, led by Ladi Balogun as Group Chief Executive. The Bank is committed to COVID-19 recovery, income equality and poverty reduction by easing credit constraints to disadvantaged individuals and small businesses. The intervention of FCMB in the automobile sector aligns with Goals 3 and 10 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which focus on well-being and reduced inequalities.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE FCMB offers N30m auto loan…  FCMB offers N30m auto loan… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details