The Lagos State Government has said plans have reached an advanced stage to begin the construction of Badagry Seaport. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu made the disclosure in Lagos recently at the ‘All Markets Conference 2022’ organised by the Ndigboamaka Progressive (Markets) Association. The theme of the conference was ‘Development and sustainability of the nation’s economy.’ Sanwo-Olu promised that the construction of the new seaport at Lekki would be completed before the end of 2022. “The government will start the construction of Badagry port very soon. For the Badagry port, we have already secured land and we are only waiting for the FEC approval to commence work,” he said. The governor gave an assurance that work would be completed on the Mile 2-Badagry road before the end of 2022. Sanwo-Olu advised traders to be careful over fire disasters, especially during the dry season, stressing that fire outbreaks occur more between October and March of each year.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details