Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), has not resigned, he withdrew his ambition to contest for the 2023 Kebbi State Gubernatorial Elections, The Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations to the minister, Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, has said. Malami has indicated his intention to contest the Kebbi state governorship election on the platform of the ruling All Progressive Party (APC), until last week when President Muahammadu Buhari directed political office holders with intention to participate in the forthcoming elections to resign their appointment with immediate effect. Malami’s media aide said, in a statement on Sunday that his principal has the right to choose to voluntarily shelve his gubernatorial ambition. “It is a matter of personal conviction and individual right which didn’t violate any law,” Dr Gwandu said. He added that right-thinking members of the society accord respect to individual’s right to freedom of choice in matters relating to the minister’s governorship ambition. In his words, “As individual Nigerian citizens with inalienable fundamental rights, we are not aware of any legally justifiable and reasonable tenable obligations compelling the person of Abubakar Malami, SAN or as an Attorney General of the Federation to do otherwise.  “The decision is not only a demonstration of altruism and patriotism but of contentment, self-control, placidity and decisiveness in problem-solving at a time shrouded with confusing and competing for stimulus. It is a commendable posture worthy admiration coming from a paragon of virtue,” he added. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Malami’s decision to shelve governorship ambition demonstrates altruism, patriotism ― Aide Malami’s decision to shelve governorship ambition demonstrates altruism, patriotism ― Aide MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details