WITH the gradual countdown to the June 18 governorship poll in Ekiti State, ‘YOMI AYELESO writes on the raging debate over the promises being made by candidates of the leading parties vis-a-vis public expectations. Since the return to civil rule in 1999 in Ekiti, elections in the state, especially governorship have been a combination of surprise and shock due to the high unpredictability and sophistication of Ekiti voters. The electorate in the state have the tradition of voting out parties and governments not doing their biddings and not delivering dividends of democracy every four years. So, every governorship election in Ekiti since 1999 have produced different winners and political parties. Considering this fact and other factors, some observers are saying the June 18 election is likely to present another interesting scenario. While the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) under the administration of Dr Kayode Fayemi would be hoping to break the jinx and remain in power after the election, the opposition parties appear poised to create an upset. Unlike in the past elections, this year’s poll will be keenly contested not in the manner of a two-horse. The emergence of Dr Wole Oluyede of the African Democratic Congress (ADC); former Governor Segun Oni in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Chief Reuben Famuyibo of Accord has no doubt opened a new vista ahead of the poll. The talk and influence of money on the day of the election has also gained prominence.. Some political observers opine ‘see and buy’ syndrome might decide, considering the level of poverty in the state. However, stakeholders, including candidates have been campaigning against this act, calling on voters not to trade their future. While the candidate of APC and immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Biodun Oyebanji and that of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former state chairman, Bisi Kolawole are enjoying the backing of their godfathers in Fayemi and Ayo Fayose respectively, the threat pose by the trio of Oni, Oluyede and Famuyibo, according to some pundits, cannot be wished away. Oni is a former governor of the state. His SDP has been christened the Third Force, considering its rising popularity. But the APC and the PDP are quick to respond that Third Force has not make any significant impact in governorship elections in the state since 1999. As the campaigns gather momentum across the 16 local government areas of the state, a number of issues are constantly being thrown up by th candidates. The welfare of workers and pensioners, security, investment drive and economic growth, social programmes, among other issues, are taking the centre-stage. The issue of security of lives and property is also on the front-burner in the bid by the candidates to rally the electorate for support.  The APC candidate, Oyebanji during his recent unveiling of his manifesto to the people promised to sustain and continue the success of the Fayemi administration. As captured in the six-point manifesto, job creation for young people and human capital development, would be top priorities of Oyebanji’s government to further tap the rich human resources the state is endowed with. Other critical areas captured in Oyebanji’s policy thrust include: agriculture and rural development, infrastructure and industrialisation, arts culture and tourism and governance. He stated: “This is not a promise made by a politician, but a promise that I made as an Ekiti man to Ekiti people. We are going to grow the economy and create jobs for our people. We will invest in human capital to safeguard the future of our people. Our mission is to provide quality education and develop our knowledge zone in order to create jobs, new markets, and attract financing for industrious Ekiti entrepreneurs to start or grow their businesses. We will complete all strategic infrastructure projects in transport, agriculture and power designed to improve the quality of lives for all and make Ekiti competitive for businesses of all sizes. On his part, the PDP candidate, Kolawole pointed out that the state is experiencing financial and economic challenges due to lack of cottage industries where the state has comparative advantages. He explained that investors are afraid to partner with the state due to what he described as the disturbing security challenges in the state. He said he has a template to attract both local and foreign investors to the state by first addressing the kidnappings, killings and other heinous crimes confronting the state, adding, “ no investor will come to where his or life is not safe. “When you take off the Boko Haram zone, Ekiti is the least secured state. You can’t travel from Efon to Ado without fear. We have to revert to the time when Governor Ayodele Fayose reinvigorated the local hunters and to tackle insecurity from Ekiti. Our obas were being rendered ordinary with bandits shooting and kidnapping them for ransoms. I am seeking this position with strong pedigree as an ex-legislator and ex-commissioner. I am going to be people-centric. All my activities will be centred on the people. If your people can’t cheer you as a governor, you are just a mere visitor, stranger and expatriate.” The SDP candidate and former governor, Oni assured the people that he would utilise the little resources accruable to Ekiti to develop the state the way he did during his first term by initiating programmes that would have short and long-term impact on the people at the grassroots. He said there is no magic in governance, adding that all government’s programmes, including infrastructure and human capital development will be attained if a leader can refrain from corruption and make the right sacrifices with right priorities. The ADC candidate, Oluyede promised to carry out radical development by focusing on wealth creation, encouraging commercial agriculture, attract investments, and make education impressive by giving requisite motivations to teachers.  He opined: “Under my government, students will have access to informal and formal education. We need to have education system that is geared towards problem solving. In Britain, UK, Australia, and China, they started teaching students how to solve problems from age three. In the area of health, our hospitals will be equipped based on needs and not by just purchasing equipment that will not be useful. We will ensure effective communication among the primary, secondary and tertiary health institutions for quality healthcare delivery. We need re-orientation and I must tell you that wealth creation is my top priority because we have to deliberately do something to create something for our people to survive and come out of poverty.”  Stakeholders’ expectations Most discerning minds in the state are curious about what the future promises Ekiti at the post-June 18 poll. So, many stakeholders have been trying to set an agenda for the candidates and their parties. But as the election approaches, the Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Ekiti, Bishop Felix Ajakaiye says peace remain a sine quo non as a prelude to having a credible poll. So, he has urged the candidates and their parties to eschew violence.. He also called on the electorate to be ready to vote for candidate that would foster progress. He said: “It surprises me when I heard some people speak on radio these days because the only politics I know is the one that will thrive for the betterment of all people. Some of them have taken politics as business. During one election in the state, an 80-year old woman went to some people and took money. Then she said to me on the line, ’Bishop you better go and collect yours.’ That made me sad because it shows that the value we know Ekiti for is gradually being irrelevant.” On his part, a public affairs analyst, Johnson Folarin, noted that the people should interrogate the plans and programmes of the candidates, rather than just following political parties, explaining that the state needs a new governor that would be creative in changing the fortunes of the state. I want to tell you that the coming election is crucial to Ekiti state because we still have a long way to go in terms of development and growth and this will only happen when there is a government that is innovative. I want the people to look at the antecedents of all the candidates and what they are promising to do now, we should forget about political parties for now,” he said.  Chances The Director of Media and Publicity of the Segun Oni Campaign Organisation (SOCO), Jackson Adebayo expressed optimism that the SDP would win the election, considering the popularity and acceptance of its candidate. Adebayo added that the election would be between the party and the SDP, saying the PDP has been depleted. He said: “The PDP is not on ground again in the state because of the defections of majority of its members to the SDP. The SDP will definitely win the election because it is the people’s election. What is happening in our party in Ekiti at present is strange. For a new party that did not have any structure to grow geometrically within two months is a miracle and that is what has happened to Ekiti State. Now, all the structures in the PDP and the major structures in the APC have collapsed into the SDP; that is why the once unstructured party has suddenly become the most structured party in Ekiti State today.” The spokesman for the Bisi Kolawole Campaign Organisation, Lere Olayinka stated, “The SDP is not in this race. We (PDP) are going to win. All the indices are there. You can see the failure of the party in government, the APC everywhere. You can see insecurity; you can see decaying infrastructure, non-payment of salaries through not paying deductions. The government owes about eight months’ deductions. The indicators are there that the people have rejected the APC at the state and the federal level. The people are with us, they want to go back to a government that they can feel; they want a situation whereby they can see their governor and they can discuss with their governor, unlike a governor who in a month spends only two days in Ekiti and the remaining in Abuja. People are tired of that kind of situation.” On his part, the APC publicity secretary in the state, Segun Dipe, who said the governing party and its candidate, Biodun Oyebanji, were unbeatable since Ekiti people knew they could be trusted to deliver on promises, also dismissed insinuations in some quarters that the poll would be keenly contested by the APC, PDP and SDP. Dipe said: “It is not a keen contest. The APC will win with a reasonable margin. It is not going to be keen at all. As the people listen and watch the candidates crisscross the states in continuation of their campaigns, political watchers are of the opinion that the election would no doubt be keenly contested.