The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State has postponed their primary elections for the House of Assembly and House of Representatives till Thursday,  May 26, 2022. The Publicity Secretary, Mazi Emenike Mmeregini, said that the reason behind the postponement is the fact that the accreditation of delegates has not yet been concluded coupled with the late hour. He said that both the accreditations of delegates and voting cannot be conducted on Wednesday especially when they are not sure of electricity at the venue of the election because of the late hours. He assured that by tomorrow, the two election processes would be handled and the voting would take place for the winners to emerge. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Imo PDP postpones primary election for House of Assembly, Reps HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details