The sum of N1,434,715  recoverd at a vehicluar accident scene in Agbor, Delta State by officers and men of the  state  command  of the federal road safety corps has been handed over to   the families of the victims. The Sector Commander in the state, Udeme Bassey Eshiet  on Friday officially presented the recovered monies to  identified relatives of the deceased. Members of  the association of seafood sellers in Onitsha, Anambra State who were on a business trip to Ondo State on  May 10, 2022, had had  a fatal crash involving a Toyota Hiace bus with registration number AGU497ZW and a Benz Truck with registration number KLK642XA  on the Agbor-Benin expressway by Stephenson’s hotel, Agbor. As a result, five persons were killed, while eleven  others sustained varying degrees of injuries. But  through the help of the Chairman of  Ose market branch of the association, relatives of those killed were contacted and invited to the command to receive the  recovered money. Speaking at the occasion, the sector Commander, Eshiet said it was the tradition of the corps to return cash or property of accident victims the their families.  He cautioned motorists to be mindful of the raining season to reduce their speed on the highways as the 100 kilometers per hour is only application  to a situation where the road is clear. Chairman of the association, Mr. Duru Eric Emeka could not hide his feelings as he showered encomium on the staff of the command for the show of rare integrity. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY