It was a black Sunday in Anambra State following the killing of six persons in various locations in the state by gunmen. Out of the number, four of them were siblings with their mother. The incident happened at Isulo, Orumba North Local Government Area. The others took place at Abatete in Idemili North Local Government Area, while another man was killed at Nanka Orumba North Local Government Area, all in Anambra State. Eyewitnesses told journalists, that the gunmen invaded those areas and opened fire on the victims and left. When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, could not confirm the incidents, as he said the details were sketchy Rather, he said the command would talk about the incidents on Monday when they must have gotten a clear picture of what transpired.  However, one of the senior police officers in the state who did not want to be quoted told newsmen that the Isulo incident was true. But the source failed to confirm the other two locations, saying, “I’ve not received the signals of those ones.” Meanwhile, tension has heightened in Anambra State following the constant killings of persons on daily basis by gunmen. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… IPOB Not On UK’s List Of Terrorist Organisations — British High Commission The British High Commission has debunked reports circulating in the media and online that the UK Government has added the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to the UK’s list of terrorist groups or organisations banned under UK law.  These reports are untrue, it declared. HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY