The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a wanted drug kingpin behind the 2000.6kg Cannabis Sativa seized in a concrete mixer truck in Adamawa State last year, December, Henry Chukwuneku Okamaru (a.k.a. Lawrence Ik Okamaru), in Ondo State after five months of manhunt. Two suspects, Matthew Donuwe and Friday Nmborgwu, who were arrested in connection with the consignment last December had confessed that the concrete mixer truck with Lagos registration number SMK 890 XB was loaded with the illicit drug in Ogbese, Ondo State while they travelled for two months on the road before arriving Adamawa where they were eventually arrested by NDLEA operatives. An NDLEA statement, on Sunday, said, investigations revealed that Okamaru is one of the leaders of a cannabis cultivation cartel that operates in the Ondo-Ekiti axis, while he shuttles between Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Edo and Delta State from where he coordinates supplies of illicit consignments to Northern parts of the country and Lagos State. The drug lord has also been identified as a member of an international drug trafficking ring, while he shuttles between Nigeria and South Africa where he settles his family. He has strong control and stake in cannabis cultivation in Ondo, Edo, Ekiti, Osun and Oyo States with large storage facilities in Lagos and Abbi in Delta State from where his consignments are distributed year-round. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Meanwhile, a 36-year-old Nigerian based in Italy, Nwakanma Michael Uche, has been arrested at the Abuja Airport for ingesting pellets of heroin. Nwakanma who hails from, Arodizuogu Village, Ideato Local Government Area of Imo State was nabbed while trying to board Air France Airline enroute Abuja-Paris-Milan, Italy on 15th May 2022. He was thereafter kept under observation during which he excreted 95 pellets of the illicit drug. He claimed he came to see his parents in Nigeria after 12 years in Italy and to complete his father’s traditional marriage rites. He added that he was to be paid N1.5million after successful delivery of the drugs in Milan. Across five states of Edo, Kaduna, Kogi, Akwa Ibom and Oyo, NDLEA operatives intensified their offensive action against drug cartels. In Edo, a pharmacy along Sapele Road, Benin, was raided on May 27 following intelligence and prolonged surveillance. The owner of the store, Thaddeus Uliagbafusi, was arrested while a total of 130,670 tablets of different controlled drugs, 1,396 ampoules of pentazocine injection and 743 bottles of codeine were recovered from a secret location where the drugs are repackaged. This followed a similar raid of a drug joint operated by Mrs Christianah Gabriel, at Uromi, Esan North-East LGA, Edo State, who was arrested with 25kg cannabis. While 15, 000 ampoules of pentazocine injection were seized by operatives in Kaduna along Abuja-Kaduna express road, 12,500 tablets of Diazepam were intercepted along the Okene-Abuja highway on Thursday. The drug exhibits were found inside a truck conveying motor spare parts from Onitsha, Anambra to Kaduna. In Akwa Ibom, a female drug dealer, Irene Emmanuel Bassey was arrested on Saturday during a search of her house at Ikpa town, Esit Eket LGA where 30.5kg cannabis was recovered, while one Muideen Rasaki was nabbed with 90.8kg cannabis at Elere, Boluwaji area of Ibadan South-East LGA. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NDLEA arrests another wanted drug lord in Ondo as Italy based Nigerian excretes 95 pellets of heroin at Abuja airport Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa NDLEA arrests another wanted drug lord in Ondo as Italy based Nigerian excretes 95 pellets of heroin at Abuja airport MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details