The Director and Chief Executive of the National Teachers Institute (NTI), Professor Musa Maitafsir has advocated for inclusive education in our school curriculum. He said the time has come for Nigerians to join the global community in making provision for accessible education for all its citizens without discrimination. Maitafsir made the remarks at the opening of a two-day workshop on, “Designing of a General Studies Curriculum on Inclusive Education” held at the NTI’s headquarters in Kaduna on Friday. Represented by the Director of Academic Services, Hajiya Hafsat Lawal Kontagora, he stressed the need for the improvement of the quality of teaching and learning in our schools. To this end, he called for the introduction of a variety of learning methods, in our schools for both the teachers and learners, saying, the teachers must equip themselves with inclusive educational skills. According to him, inclusive education in Nigeria is serving children with disabilities with general education.  ‘This is to say the right of every child to basic, compulsory and quality education without discrimination as stipulated by the Universal Basic Education (UBE) Act (2004) as well as the National Policy on Inclusive Education (2016). Maitafsir also noted that so far inadequate knowledge and skills, lack of facilities as well as poor support from stakeholders as major factors impeding the progress of inclusive education in the country. However, he’s optimistic that with the new approach now Nigeria will join the comity of nations. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…NTI advocates for inclusive  NTI advocates for inclusive Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…NTI advocates for inclusive  NTI advocates for inclusive HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY