Former Minister of Transportation and Presidential Aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Rt Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has expressed sadness over the stampede that occurred at a church charity event in Port Harcourt, weekend. Amaechi in a statement by his media office, condoled victims of the incident, stating that, “it is so sad and heart wrenching that the good deed of the church turned sour following the ugly incident. He said, “it is high time, logistics and appropriate crowd control measures be seriously taken into consideration in the planning and execution of any event, not just in Rivers State, but the whole of Nigeria, to forestall such sad occurrences. “I sympathize with the families of the dead and pray for the quick recovery of the injured. I also empathize with the church, the Kings Assembly, the government and people of Rivers State. May God grant them all the strength to overcome this,” Amaechi said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents  In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details