Former Chairman, House Committee on Telecommunications, Honourable Saheed Akinade-Fijabi, on Sunday, clinched the ticket of the All progressives Congress (APC) to contest the House of Representatives seat for Ibadan Northwest/Southwest Federal Constituency. Fijabi won his bid again to represent his people ahead of next year’s general election. Having represented the federal constituency twice, this mandate gives him a chance to become a high-ranking member of the green chamber if he wins in the general elections. In his acceptance speech, an elated Fijabi thanked God and the people of the Northwest/Southwest constituency for their trust in him. He called on the other aspirants who lost in the primaries to join hands with him to ensure the victory of APC in the 2023 general elections. He said “I must thank God and my followers for their commitment and loyalty to our dear party APC. It is high time they sent the opposition party away from the constituency saying that victory is certain for his party comes 2023. “This is another opportunity for me to serve my people and I promised to discharge my duty. There is a lot to be done in our constituency and Oyo State as a whole.  “There is no winner and there is no loser because I believe we are one,” he said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in the Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details