A Kano State High Court presided over by Justice Usman Naabba has sentenced a 19-year-old man, Ibrahim Khalil, to death by hanging for killing his five-year-old nephew, Ahmad Ado, by sellotaping his nose and mouth. This was just as the convict, however, denied committing the offence. However, in his ruling on Tuesday, Justice Na’abba, said that the prosecution had proven their case beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, sentenced the convict to 14 years imprisonment for kidnapping. The judge also sentenced the convict to death by hanging for homicide. However, earlier the Prosecution Counsel, Mr Lamido Sorondinki, had informed the court that the convict committed the offence sometime in 2019 at Karkasara Quarters in Kano metropolis. The prosecution counsel disclosed that the defendant kidnapped his sister’s son, Ado, and in the process used a sellotape to cover his nose, mouth and buried him in a shallow grave at Sabuwar Sheka in Kano.  The prosecution presented three witnesses to the court and four exhibits to prove their case against the defendant. He further disclosed that the offence contravened section 274 and 221 (a) of the Penal Code. The defence counsel, Barr. Aisha Abdulkadir, presented the defendant as lone witness and pleaded for clemency on behalf of her client. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…