The National Woman Leader of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP), Dr Maryam Jummai Yasin has said that come 2023, the NNPP will form the government at the national level and bring about a better change for Nigerians. She said Nigerians are yearning for a new Nigeria and the ruling party only brought a horrible change which had led to rise in insecurity, poverty, job loss and other socio-economic challenges facing the country. Speaking during a meeting with zonal and state women leaders of the party, Dr Yasin assured Nigeria Nigerians of a better life as soon as the party forms the government in 2023. She also called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to probe those in the ruling party who purchased the N100 million presidential form. Her words: Nigerians have been yearning for a new Nigeria, so with this party, we are rest assured that we have chosen the right path. “You can see that Nigerians have gone through a lot, we have suffered a lot, a lot of people have been disenfranchised, a lot of people have been suffering, many people do not have food to eat, they cannot even sustain a daily food, our children are out there without jobs, and the universities have been on strike.  “We want a change, not the change that was brought by our sister party, those changes are horrible changes, we never expected that, and we are not interested in such a change. “Nigerian need good water, we need electricity, we need good roads, we need hospitals with equipment that will take care of the health of Nigerians. “You can imagine when Ebola and Covid-19 broke out in Nigeria that was when the government in power was exposed, a lot of hospitals had no facilities, there are competent doctors but there are no facilities. “Our children and women have been subjected to taking drugs because of frustration, in those days women are not found into crime, but these days women have been endemic in crime, women are used too stealing money from offices, but now because of the situation, there is no good moral value, things are not working the way it should be. “That is why we chose to be part of this movement, the movement that will take us to the promised land, the movement that we have hope on, that movement that is action based. “We are now out to make a change, the better change, the change that Nigerians want, and we are assuring them that they will not be disappointed in them. We are sure that we are going to take the mantle of leadership at Aso Rock”. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details