Authorities of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, on Tuesday, ordered all students of the institution to vacate the Halls of Residence not later than Friday, May 13, 2022. The reason for this is a result of the update on the current strike action embarked upon by all the Staff Unions in the nation’s Federal Universities. Making this known through a statement is the Dean, Division of Students Affairs of the university, Prof. I.O. Aransi, stated that “to this end, all undergraduate and postgraduate students in the Halls of Residence are directed to vacate their respective hostels and go home till further notice. “It is our hope that issues necessitating the strike action will be resolved as soon as possible and the University Management and the Division of Student Affairs wish all students a safe journey to their respective destinations,” he submitted. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. ASUU strike: OAU management orders students to vacate halls of residence Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. ASUU strike: OAU management orders students to vacate halls of residence MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details