Twitter Inc said in a filing on Friday it would not accept Egon Durban’s resignation from the board, two days after shareholders blocked his re-election at an annual meeting. Durban is an ally of Elon Musk, who has offered to take Twitter private in a $44 billion deal. Twitter said Durban failed to receive the support of a majority of the votes in the re-election held earlier this week due to “voting policies of certain institutional investors regarding board service limitations”. Durban, who serves on the boards of six other companies, has agreed to reduce his board service commitments to no more than five public company boards by May 25, 2023, Twitter said. Silver Lake Partners, where Durban is co-chief executive officer (CEO), helped put together Musk’s $44 billion acquisition of Twitter, according to a filing. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Twitter rejects Elon Musk ally’s resignation from board MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Twitter rejects Elon Musk ally’s resignation from board  HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details