President Muhammadu Buhari has called on the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to consider the plight of students and call off the ongoing strike. The President also urged students in Nigeria’s public tertiary institutions to exercise patience as the government strives to address the nagging issues in the nation’s university system within the ambit of the resources available. He made the appeal at the 19th National Productivity Day and the conferment of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award (NPOM) on 48 eminent Nigerians and organisations in both the public and private sectors, for their high productivity, hardwork and excellence. President Buhari recalled that he had earlier directed the Chief of Staff, Hon Ministers of Labour and Employment, Education, Finance, Budget and National Planning to immediately bring all parties to the negotiation table to again critically look at the grey areas in the demands of ASUU and in fact all other University-based labour unions. On the theme of this year’s celebration ‘‘Achieving Higher Productivity through Improved Education System,’’ the President pledged that the Federal Government would continue to do everything possible to uplift the standard of the educational system in the country, adding that his administration recognised that the future of any nation is contingent on the standard of its educational system. ‘‘Therefore, if we desire to transform Nigeria into a competitive, strong, vibrant, productive and sustainable economy, improving our educational system should be accorded the highest priority.’’  Highlighting notable achievements in the education sector including the drastic reduction of the number of out of school children from 10.1million in 2019 to 6.9 million in 2020, automatic employment for graduates of education, and review of the retirement age of teachers from 60 to 65 years, among others, the President said more still needs to be done. ‘‘Ignoring the productivity dimension of education would endanger the prosperity of future generations, with widespread repercussions for poverty and social exclusion. ‘‘It will be difficult to improve our economic performance and overall productivity, without improving our educational system. ‘‘Government notes the emergency situation in our educational system with particular reference to the dearth of qualified and dedicated teachers to enhance the quality of teaching and learning at all levels of our educational system,’’ he said. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE To address these challenges, President Buhari said his administration has reviewed the retirement age of teachers from 60 to 65 years, while years of service have now been moved from 35 to 40 years to encourage more graduates to join the teaching profession. Similarly, the President said the government has also approved a special salary scale for teachers in Basic and Secondary schools including provisions for rural posting allowance, science teachers allowance and peculiar allowance while prioritising timely promotion and prompt payment of salaries. Furthermore, the President said the reintroduction of bursary awards to education students in universities and Colleges of Education comes with the assurance of automatic employment upon graduation as well as payment of stipends to Bachelor of Education students. Congratulating all the awardees for their various accomplishments and well-deserved recognition, the President said they have been carefully selected from a multitude of competitors, saying ‘‘this award should spur you to greater heights.’’ The President commended the Chairman and members of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award Committee, including the management and staff of the National Productivity Centre for a job well done, urging the recipients of the merit award and Nigerians to make productivity their watchword. In his remarks, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige said since the inception of the award in 1991, 382 individuals and 97 organisations have been honoured with the NPOM. Dr Stella Adadevoh and Mr Babatunde Lawal received posthumous awards at the 2019/2020 edition of the National Productivity Day. Dr Adadevoh, who died on August 19, 2014, was recognised for her outstanding performance in the fight against the spread of the Ebola virus in the country while Lawal, who until his death on November 6, 2020, served as Permanent Secretary in the Cabinet Affairs Office. Babatunde, an economist by training with a bias in fiscal policy analysis, management and strategic planning, was commended for his ‘‘thoroughness and paying keen attention to every detail’’ during his tenure as permanent secretary in the Federal Civil Service. Other recipients include the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu; the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; immediate past Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chike Ihekweazu; Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi; Chairman and Founder, BUA Group, Abdusamad Rabiu; Chairman of Globacom, Mike Adenuga Jnr; Professor Stanley Okolo, Director General of the West African Health Organization (WAHO) and Allen Onyema, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, among others. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Buhari urges ASUU to call off strike Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Buhari urges ASUU to call off strike MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details