President Muhammadu Buhari has extended best wishes to the Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari, on the occasion of his 72nd birthday. A statement issued by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity), on Sunday, quoted the President as saying: “I wish you good health and long life as you continue to serve the nation with your well-known spirit of humility and hard work.” “Governor Masari,” said the President, “has written many chapters in the development of our young democracy and in Katsina, where he is about to end his two terms as Governor.” He noted that Masari’s immense patriotism, hard work and self-discipline will continue to be appreciated as assets of the nation. “May you stay healthy and live long and under your leadership, our wish for a peaceful and prosperous Katsina state will be realised,” President Buhari concluded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Buhari greets Governor Masari at 72 Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. Buhari greets Governor Masari at 72 MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details