Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Friday supported the jettisoning of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) arrangement for the 2023 election. Abubakar who spoke with Edo State national delegates at the PDP state secretariat in Benin said that the party will only take a decision on zoning after the presidential election which he said he will win. He declared: “We will only talk of zoning when we take over the country.” Should he clinch the PDP ticket in the forthcoming primary and eventually win the election, he said that he will run an all-inclusive government where ethnicity and religion will be deemphasized. Accompanied by Senator Dino Melaye, founder of DAAR Communication, Chief Raymond Dokpesi and a host of others, he promised to be a unifier, noting that the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government has only succeeded in polarizing Nigeria along ethnic and religious line. The former vice president, the head of the economic team told the gathering which included Edo State PDP chairman, Dr. Tony Aziegbemi, former Senators Roland Owie, Ehigie Uzamere and top party leaders that from being the number one economy in Africa when the PDP held the reins of power, Nigeria is now the poverty capital of the world.  Abubakar said: “PDP has the capacity to uplift Nigeria. APC has made Nigeria a beggar country. PPD will again lift Nigeria from bottom to top.” He decried the continue closure of the nation’s tertiary institutions as a result of the ongoing strike by university teachers, lamenting that it was cause for concern that the tertiary education fund which was set up during the PDP administration is presently underfunded. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…when i take over  when i take over Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…when i take over  when i take over MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details