A former chairman of Mangu local government area of Plateau State, Mr. Caleb Muftwang, has emerged the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 governorship election in Plateau State. A total of 18 aspirants contested for the primary after series of meetings and consultations for a consensus candidate failed to yield fruitful result. Tribune Online learnt that the election which ought to have started by 10:00 am on Wednesday commenced at about 11:00 pm and snowballed to the early hour of Thursday amidst tension and apprehension. According to the chairman of the Electoral Panel, Mr Bode Ogunmola, Muftwang scored a total of 252 votes to beat 18 other aspirants to clinch the party’s ticket, while four other aspirants stepped down just before the election started. Speaking after being declared the flag bearer of the party, he said today marks the process of reclaiming the glory of Plateau State He promised that he will give the people of Plateau State the leadership that they deserve.  Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details