A coalition of northern groups has purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) expression of interest and nominations forms for former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest for the office of the president in 2023. This brings to an end the weeks of speculation that the former president intends to return to Aso Villa which he occupied between 2010 and 2015. Recall that Jonathan, while seeking re-election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), lost to the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari of the APC in 2015. Details later… YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her… It Is Now Bye To Decency: Crazy Fashion Trends At Owambe Parties Social events around the country have become the avenues of showing off the craziest latest fashion trends. ADEOLA OTEMADE reports that these fashion trends, especially by women who leave little to the imagination, portray the depth of decadence into which the society has fallen…