Nigeria in Diaspora Commission(NIDCOM) in partnership with the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria(FMBN) is set to launch a comprehensive Diaspora Housing Mortgage Scheme. The Chairman of NIDCOM, Hon Abike Dabiri-Erewa, stated this when she visited the Management and Staff of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) in Abuja. This is coming after both agencies have concluded the final stages of the Diaspora Housing Mortgage Policy. Dabiri-Erewa maintained that Nigeria, being the highest diaspora-remitting country in sub-Saharan Africa with over 19 billion dollars in 2021, according to the World Bank, assisting them own houses of their own, is the least of incentives for Nigerians abroad who tirelessly contribute to Nigeria’s development. In addition, the NiDCOM Boss disclosed that this move will encourage the Nigerian Diaspora to do more for the country, thereby creating a win-win situation. Dabiri-Erewa added further that the Scheme is aimed at enabling Nigerians in Diaspora have mortgage accounts, participate in the National Housing Fund (NHF) scheme, access loans up to N50 million, and own homes through certified developers all from the comforts of their locations.  Giving further insights, the NIDCOM Chairman/CEO, explained that the package is available to any Nigerian (above 18) living in the Diaspora, with evidence of the regular flow of income, with contributions made over a minimum period of one year before being eligible to access the mortgage loan. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Also, after contributing for the applicable minimum period, applicants will apply for the mortgage loan through an accredited Primary Mortgage Bank. Following this, applicants will register with the NHF and contribute $150 (for beneficiaries earning $3,000 and below monthly), or $200 (for beneficiaries earning $3,001 and above, monthly), respectively for a minimum period of a year. Other features of the package include: 30 per cent down payment, a single-digit interest rate of nine per cent and a payback period of up to 10 years. Meanwhile, she seized the opportunity to congratulate the new FMBN MD/Chief Executive, Mr Madu Hamman, and urged him to sustain the impressive achievements of his predecessors. Mr Madu Hamman agreed that work has been completed to make the Scheme, a reality. However, he said that the launching of the Scheme would have occurred earlier in the year, attributing the change of leadership at the FMBN, as a factor. Mr Hamman gave assurances that the inauguration of the FMBN Diaspora Housing Mortgage Scheme will be actualised in earnest to provide a transparent, seamless platform for Nigerians in Diaspora to invest and own homes in Nigeria. The NiDCOM/FMBN Committee is given till the end of May to finalise preparatory work for the launch of the Scheme proposed for London. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs NIDCOM partners FMBN to launch Diaspora housing scheme Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa NIDCOM partners FMBN to launch Diaspora housing scheme MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details