An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court has sentenced a sexual predator in Police Force, Mohammed Alidu, to life imprisonment for defiling a nine-year-old schoolgirl in the barrack. Delivering judgment, Justice Abiola Soladoye, held that Alidu was a disgrace to the Police Department because he failed to uphold law and order and went about frolicking with an underage girl. The judge held that the prosecution had convincingly proved the charge of defilement against the convict beyond any reasonable doubt. She said the survivors’ evidence was fully corroborated by the medical evidence. “The evidence of the survivor is the most credible evidence in identifying the predator. “The vivid and oral testimony of the survivor satisfies the court that the prosecution has proved every inch of the ingredients.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “He is a disgrace to the entire Police because he failed to uphold law and order as he went on a frolic of his own by engaging in bizarre and irresponsible behaviour turning the barracks into a sex den. “He should have his name entered in the Sex Offenders Register of the Lagos State Government,” the judge held. Four witnesses testified against Alidu in the trial. According to the prosecution team, Mr Olusola Soneye, Mrs Olufunke Adegoke and Ms Abimbola Abolade, Alidu committed the offence on June 29, 2018, on Makinde Police Barracks Road, Mafoluku, Oshodi. The prosecution said that Alidu grabbed the survivor into a wooden house on her way to school and defiled her. They submitted that the defendant was apprehended after the survivor reported the case at the police station. The prosecutors said the defendant confessed to defiling the survivor, blaming it on the devil but later denied it as an afterthought. The prosecutors said the offence contravened Sections 137 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details