Two persons have been reportedly killed in two different locations of Ilorin city, Kwara State capital as a group of youths unleashed mayhem in the metropolis. Tribune Online gathered that the victims of the attack were two young boys identified as Lukman and Kudus. Both were reportedly killed at Adifa and Centre Igboro area of Ilorin. It was also gathered that the attack was carried out by a group of boys led by one Habeeb Ganiyu, male, of Agbarere area, Ilorin, who allegedly stabbed the deceased several times in the chest. The state Police command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Okasanmi Ajayi, who confirmed the incident, said that the immediate/remote cause(s) of the fatal attack was yet to be unravelled. He said that the victims were rushed to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) by men of Oja Oba Police station after responding to the distress call. “Kwara State Police Command was unhappy about the report of the killings of two young boys named Lukman and Kudus, both at Adifa and Cente Igboro area of Ilorin. The attack was carried out by a group of boys led by one Habeeb Ganiyu ‘M’ of Agbarere area Ilorin, who stabbed the deceased several times in the chest. Victims were rushed to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital by men of Oja Oba Police station after responding to the distress call. The victims were confirmed dead immediately after they arrived at UITH by the doctors on duty.  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE “The suspect that led the group that carried out the attack, one Habeeb Ganiyu ‘M’ who was also seriously injured was arrested. The immediate/remote cause(s) of the fatal attack is yet to be unravelled. “However, the Commissioner of Police, Kwara State Police Command, CP Tuesday Assayomo psc (+) has ordered a discreet investigation into the matter, by deploying strategies that would lead to the arrest of the fleeing attackers, adding that anybody found to have contributed in the ugly process that led to the death of the victims would be arrested and made to bear the full weight of the law. “The Commissioner of Police, assures the people of the area in particular and Kwara State in general of their safety and security at all times, advising lawbreakers to vacate Kwara state, as anyone arrested for committing any crime would be arrested and dealt with in accordance to the laws of the land.” MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details