A nongovernmental organization, Fortune Health Plus Initiative, has donated food items to children of underprivileged homes in Ibadan. The donation of gift items was held on Friday at Sabol International School in celebration of International Children’s Day. Some of the items donated include toiletries, wheelchairs, food items, toys, and writing items among others. Speaking with the Tribune Online, the founder of the initiative, Dr Soji Ijidale, explained that the initiative is aimed at showing love and felicitation to the children as the world celebrates Children’s Day. He stated that there is a need to reach out to children with special needs because they don’t have opportunities other children have. “We are here today to felicitate these children because they don’t have the opportunity other children out there have. As you can see, they are cut off from socialisation and the beauty of the town. So we felt that we should come here today so that they will know that we care for them,” he said.  Dr Ijidale added that the organisation is established to take of the needy in the area of education, health, and community development. Responding, the Headmistress, Sabo international School, Mrs Oladuni Adepoju, appreciated the NGO for the gesture. She however appealed to other NGOs and well-meaning Nigerians to intervene in the development of the school. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details