The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogbia ward 13 in Ogbia Local Government Area in Bayelsa State has finally confirmed that former President of Nigeria, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, has joined the APC to run for president. Speaking to Tribune Online via telephone, the Ogbia ward 13 chairman, Igori Freeman, confirmed that Jonathan officially joined the APC on Wednesday, 11th May 2022, in his country home in Otuoke Community of Ogbia LGA. Igori however, refused to give further details of Jonathan’s registration process but pleaded that the state chairman of the APC, Dennis Otiotio, be contacted to get the full details of the registration. When contacted via telephone by Tribune Online, the state chairman abruptly dropped the call when our correspondent requested further details of Jonathan’s registration and refused to take further calls put across to him. However, a state executive member who pleaded anonymity was contacted, he said that “Jonathan has the right to join the party but based on our party constitution, he would have to wait for the National Working Committee of the APC to grant him waiver to vote or be voted for during the party’s primary.” It would be recalled that Jonathan had on May 9 rejected presidential expression of interest and nomination forms of the ruling APC bought for him by a Northern group but was reported to have made a u-turn to accept the offer.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo The Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry probing the killings at Lekki Toll Gate, on Saturday re MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details