The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, on Monday, decorated two newly promoted Deputy Inspectors-General of Police in Abuja. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the Force Public Relations Officer, FPRO, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi. According to the statement, “this is coming on the heels of the recently released promotions by the Police Service Commission, in which the two officers’ recommendation by the IGP was approved by the Commission. “DIG Bala Zama Senchi, was until his recent promotion, the acting DIG Department of Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja. “A consummate police officer, he holds a BA in History. The Kebbi State-born cop has held many Command positions including the Commissioner of Police, Police Staff College, Jos, Jigawa Police Command, and Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Community Policing, Force Headquarters, Abuja. ALSO READ FROM  NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  It explained that DIG John Ogbonaya Amadi, who hailed from Ebonyi State, is a versatile police officer, with a Bachelor’s degree in Education (Biology) and a Master’s Degree in Education both from the University of Lagos. According to it, he attended several professional courses both in Nigeria, and abroad and he is a member of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS). He held many Command positions including; Commissioner of Police at the Railway Police Command, Western Ports Authority, Lagos, and Airport Command, Lagos; Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of Maritime, Lagos. He is currently the DIG in charge of Research and Planning, as well as the coordinating DIG for the South East Geo-Political Zone. It added that the Inspector-General of Police charged the senior officers and others who have just been promoted, on quality delivery of policing services to members of the public while ensuring full compliance with the police reform agenda of the President. He further charged the DIG Operations with improving ICT-based operational activities while the DIG Research and Planning was tasked to focus on engendering professional planning for improved policing in Nigeria. How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs IGP decorates newly promoted DIGs in Abuja Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa IGP decorates newly promoted DIGs in Abuja MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details