Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has declared his administration’s support for a proposal by a British firm, HP Kapital Limited, to partner the Adoration Ministry Enugu Nigeria (AMEN) to build a 500-bed University Hospital, three factories, a waste management plant and other facilities within the vicinity of the Adoration Centre, in Enugu. Gov. Ugwuanyi who spoke when the Spiritual Director of AMEN, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, led the Group Chairman of HP Kapital Limited, Nandishwar Kaushal and his team to visit him, at the Government House, Enugu, said the state government will do all that is required, considering its limited resources, to assist and ensure that the laudable project succeeds. The delegation visited Gov. Ugwuanyi to formally inform him of their remodeling plan for the Adoration Centre to serve as a multifunctional facility to include a University Hospital of international standard with specialized medical services such as a helipad and air ambulance, a five star hotel, recreation facility and convention centre, among others. Requesting for land for the project, the delegation also informed the governor of their plan to build an energy plant to manage waste and convert it to wealth. They equally said they will build three factories that would employ 600 people locally, who will be trained by 40 engineers to be trained abroad, among other inherent benefits to the state and the local community. Speaking further, Gov. Ugwuanyi expressed delight at the project action plan which was in line with the accomplishments of his administration in creating jobs for the youth and providing qualitative and affordable healthcare services to residents of the state, including the rural dwellers. The governor, who noted that Fr. Mbaka has paid his dues, stressed that his administration will continue to support and encourage any venture that would create jobs and add value to the economy of the state and the living standard of the people.  “I want to assure and reassure you that the Enugu State Government will do all that is required, giving our limited resources, to assist you”, he said. Earlier in his presentation, the Group Chairman of HP Kapital Limited, Kaushal, informed Gov. Ugwuanyi the University Hospital will be affiliated with “your University here (ESUT) and AU University in Britain”, adding that “the degrees that will be issued will be in collaboration with your University and AU British University”. He disclosed that the company hopes to have an initial strength of 7,500 students in a number of different Curriculums, “not only medicine”, explaining further that “the staff accommodation is going to be 2,500 people” locally and internationally. On corporate social responsibility, the chairman stated that they will help the needy and the less privileged, revealing that “10 percent of all beds, no matter the cost of the bill, we will treat those patients for free so far those persons are registered citizens of Enugu State”. Corroborating, Fr. Mbaka thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for his fatherly support, pointing out that it would be a thing of joy “the generation to come will know that this project came to be in Gburugburu’s (Gov. Ugwuany’s) time”. The AMEN Spiritual Director maintained that the project is coming to Enugu State because of the existing peace and the enabling environment provided by the governor. According to him, “The HP Kapital Limited is not just coming as a mono entrepreneurial team; we are partnering with them. It is a holistic partnership between them and Adoration Ministry. All you have suggested are in tandem with our vision and mission. More so when you talked about the charitable dimension and how this will be beneficial to the inherent resident community; it is part and parcel of our dream”. Fr. Mbaka prayed for the timely commencement and successful completion of the project, and assured Gov. Ugwuanyi of their collective commitment and determination to ensure that he inaugurates some of the projects before the end of his administration. “Your Excellency, by the time you are not in the office as a Governor of Enugu State there are a lot of things for which you should be remembered for. And I pray that among all the credible, multiple, pragmatic, and demonstrated developments, one of them should be this project we have come with today”, he said.