The founder of Hour of Mercy Prayer Mountain Worldwide, Prophet Muyideen Kasali, has advised former president, Goodluck Jonathan, not to succumb to pressure from people to join the 2023 presidential race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Kasali, who gave the advice, also urged Nigerians to intensify prayers against the worsening security situation in the country. He said calling on Jonathan to join the presidential race was a ploy to destroy the good name and integrity he had built for himself while in office. The cleric who stated this while speaking on the state of the nation said, “Jonathan is an elderly person that can decide on any issue for himself. “He should know that one needs to leave the stage when the ovation is loudest. God has blessed and honoured him such that, no other politician can equal the kind of political progression he had in country. “It is like a person who has done a very good job and want to use his own hand to scatter it. I don’t think he forgot something at Aso Rock which he wants to go back to pick. He should allow his detractors posing as friends to tactically remove the glorious attire he is adorning and drag him in the mud by bidding for presidency.”  Prophet Kasali who expressed shock over the death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, described the late monarch as a man with unequal experience, wisdom who knew how to put things right and in order. “I commiserate with all Yorubas worldwide, the deceased family, people and government of Oyo state as well as Ooni of Ife.” On the worsening security situation in the country, the man of God enjoined those seeking to contest the 2023 polls to proffer ideas on how to tame banditryand terrorism in the country, warning that the elections may not hold if the issue of insecurity is not tackled. “National Security Adviser of Nigeria, Babagana Monguno said recently said President Muhammadu Buhari is saddened by the state of insecurity in the country and had given a marching order to security chiefs to turn things around but the security situation is yet to improve. What we need to do now is to seek the face of God in prayers for His intervention onthe problem of insecurity which has defied human efforts. If the killings and other criminal acts do not stop, the 2023 polls may be jeopardised since most places are no longer safe.” On the call for the restructuring of the country, he advocated convocation of a constitutional conference to usher in new constitution for the country. “You cannot restructure what is not existing and something cannot be built on nothing. The 1999 constitution is obsolete, we must do away with it because it can’t take Nigeria to the promise land,” the cleric said. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details