The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike has promised support for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar. In a tweet on Monday, Governor Wike wrote: “I made a vow to the PDP that I will support whoever emerges from the #PDPPresidentialPrimaries and I am not going to go back on my word. We cannot abandon the @OfficialPDPNig. We will be fully supporting H.E @atiku.”   Nigerian Tribune reported earlier today that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has taken steps to make up with his closest rival for the ticket, Nyesom Wike, by visiting him at home Monday morning.  The former Vice President and 2019 flag bearer of the main opposition party, reached out to the Rivers State governor following the last minute intrigues that enabled him to clinch the party’s presidential ticket on Saturday at the PDP national convention in Abuja. Wike, who came second to Atiku after the Governor of Sokoto, Aminu Tambuwal, withdrew from the race and directed his supporters to vote for the former Vice President, had not publicly acknowledged Atiku’s victory. He was thought to have felt betrayed by the late move made by Tambuwal that helped Atiku to achieve victory. Ostensibly keen to secure the support of the Rivers governor, Atiku visited him along with some other party chieftains in his Asokoro, Abuja residence as he bade to assuage him. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details