The member representing Ikwo Ezza South Federal Constituency, Hon Chunedu Ogah, has been declared winner of House of Representatives primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ogah, who is aspiring for a second term won unopposed. Declaring the result after the election at Ohataekwe primary school Amagu Ikwo, the chairman of the Electoral Committee, Nkemka Onuma, declared the lawmaker winner. According to him, 155 voters were accredited and Ogah polled 154 votes with one invalid vote. In his acceptance speech, Ogah thanked his constituents for giving him another opportunity to serve and promised to support the APC to win all elections in the state. Meanwhile, controversy marred the exercise in Ohaozara, Onicha and Ivo (OHANIVO) as  APC held parallel elections and produces two winners.  Chief Julius Emmanuel Ukachukwu in his faction emerges winner and polled a total of 150 votes to defeat his closest rival and only opponent, Hon. Felix Igboke who scored 20 votes to trail behind him. Felix Igboke, in his own faction, emerges winner and polled 167 votes out of 170 voters that were accredited while Julius Ukachukwu got zero votes with no invalid votes as only 167 voters participated after accreditation. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… IPOB Not On UK’s List Of Terrorist Organisations — British High Commission The British High Commission has debunked reports circulating in the media and online that the UK Government has added the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to the UK’s list of terrorist groups or organisations banned under UK law.  These reports are untrue, it declared. HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details