Operatives of Ekiti State Amotekun Corps have arrested a man, identified simply as Fatoba, along Efon–Ado Road for illegal possession of a gun. The Corps Commander Brig. Gen. Joe Komolafe (retd.), said in Ado Ekiti that a gun was discovered in the suspect’s car upon search by operatives of the corps, following which he identified himself as an officer of the Department of State Services. The Amotekun commander also disclosed that a suspected human trafficker, identified as Olabode, was arrested for alleged human trafficking to Mali. Komolafe said, “We heard on a tip-off that some people wanted to enter Ekiti State with arms illegally. Following vigilance, we have been able to flag down the man with a Hilux van. When we searched the vehicle, we discovered that he had an illegal gun, a locally-made gun. “Upon interrogation, he said he was an operative of DSS, but he could not produce any identification. Later he said he was sorry for impersonation and for illegal possession of arms. I see him as a scout, who came to see whether the road was porous so that they could come in. “We will still be on the lookout. After a thorough investigation, we will hand him over to the police for further investigations and prosecution.”  The suspect, however, said that he travelled with the gun, which he said belonged to his late grandfather following a recent attack on him by herdsmen along the Ijesa Isu–Ikole road to scare attackers away in case of any recurrence. Fatoba said, “I was arrested by Amotekun at the Efon/Ikogosi axis on my way to Ado Ekiti from Ibadan. They stopped me, checked my vehicle and discovered I had a gun in the vehicle. When they asked me to identify myself, I told them falsely that I am a DSS officer maybe they can free me through that.” The Amotekun Commander also disclosed that a suspected human trafficker, identified as Olabode, arrested over alleged trafficking in persons to Mali, would be handed over to the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons. Olabode, who denied being a human trafficker, said he only responded to a request from somebody in Mali for some Nigerians to come over to the West African country to work. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Ekiti Amotekun arrest man with illegal possession of firearm Ekiti Amotekun arrest man with illegal possession of firearm MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details