Erhiatake Ibori-Suenu, daughter of former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori, and former House of Representatives member, Evenly Oboro, on Tuesday, defeated their male co-contestants in a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) primary rerun for the House of Representatives. Ibori’s daughter, Ibori-Suenu, in a show of supremacy, defeated an incumbent House of Representatives member, Ben Igbakpa, 46 to 22 votes during the PDP’s rerun for the Ethiope Federal Constituency held at the Oghara Township Stadium. The two had earlier, on Sunday had a tie of 34 votes a piece at the same venue leading to the rerun of Tuesday in which the former governor’s daughter defeated Igbakpa, believed to have the strong support of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Oboro, on her part, also emerged as a PDP candidate for Okpe/Sapele/Uvwie Federal Constituency in the 2023 general elections by defeating her male counterparts, Napoleon Gbinije and Efe Afe with 45 against 36 and 18 votes, respectively. The iron lady had, last Sunday, had a lie of 24 votes apiece with Gbinije and Efe, prompting a rerun on Tuesday to produce a winner. IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Two females emerge… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Two females emerge…  HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details