The Senator representing Lagos West Senatorial District, Solomon Olamilekan Adeola, has said that the conferment of Aremo Yewaland title on him was not politically motivated. Adeola, who is eyeing senatorial seat in Ogun West, noted that the honour done on him and his wife as Yeye Aremo Yewaland, was nothing but a token of appreciation for his contribution to Yewaland. The lawmaker in an interview with newsmen after the installation ceremony which had in attendance Prince Dapo Abiodun and his deputy, Engr. Noimot Salako-Oyedele; former governors of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba and Otunba Gbenga Daniel respectively; the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo; the Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi, Agura of Gbagura, Oba Sabur Bakre and business mogul, Hajia Bola Shagaya,  thanked the entire traditional rulers in Yewaland for approving to honour his wife and him, with such important titles. Other eminent personalities at the event held at the Senators Tokunbo Abiru(Lagos East);  Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti Central);  Ibrahim Oloriegbe(Kwara Central); Ayo Akinyelure( Ondo Central); Aderele Oriolowo(Osun West) and Ibrahim Hadejia(Jigawa North East). He explained that his installation had nothing to do with his senatorial ambition as being speculated in some quarters, submitting that the title was a confirmation that he is a bonafide son of Yewaland. Adeola said, “I appreciate all the entire Obas in Yewa land for coming together and approve me of this important title alongside my wife.  *We want to assure them that this new titles they have bestowed on us will not be taken  for granted. “We are assuring them that we will do everything within our armbit to contribute our quota to the overall development of Yewaland. “Well, to a large extent, I strongly believe that this chieftaincy title was not politically motivated. I believe it is in appreciation and the belief in me by my people that I can do everything that is humanly possible to contribute my quota to the development of the land. “So, when it comes to politics, I believe it is a different ball game and different terrain. The direct implication is that what we have been doing to the people of Yewaland, we should continue  to do it and do more. “I believe the title, Aremo of Yewaland which simply means the first born of the Kabiyesi of Yewaland, is a very big title. I will do everything to meet the expectations that is expect of me and my wife.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details