First Bank of Nigeria Plc has said that recreating wealth for the unbanked and improving their standards of living will continue to be its major focus while leveraging digital offerings to drive financial inclusion. Its managing director, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, stated this during the commissioning of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) Entrepreneurship Development Centre (EDC) situated at Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos at the weekend. Dr Adeduntan expressed excitement at the birthing of the project while adding that ICAN is widely acclaimed for supporting national capacity building and economic self-reliance by raising and training astute accounting professionals working tall within and outside the borders of this country. Dr Adeduntan, who was represented by the bank’s Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Iyamabo, said that First Bank, being a foremost financial institution on the continent is an ardent proponent of raising and nurturing professionals across all fields, especially in accounting, which is at the centre of business anywhere. According to him, for over 128 years of First bank’s continuous unbroken operations, many more economic cycles, and industry transformations whilst reinventing itself many more times than any financial institution on the continent. “We continue to demonstrate an affinity for technological advancements, and by our suites progress movement from traditional brick and mortar banking to digital banking. We see our drive into digital banking as a call to mission building, as we continue to leverage our digital offerings to drive financial inclusion and create wealth for the erstwhile unbanked.  We will not rest our oars in the pursuit of sustainable social, economic and environmental growth across all spheres of the economy. Our business footprint crosses Nigeria, Francophone and anglophone Sub Saharan Africa, Europe and Asia. Our community development initiatives are anchored on the strategic tripod of education, health, and welfare. Our engagement in sustainable practices is premised on enhancing economic development and ensuring economic stability for the present and future generations,” He said. Earlier in her keynote address, the President of ICAN, Comfort Eyitayo, while commending First Bank for the joint collaboration of the project, said the EDC is a conscious and deliberate effort to drastically reduce the number of unemployed accountants and other participating public. “The ICAN EDC is envisioned to provide practical and world-class capacity building programs in the areas of professional practice and fintech with a potential of expansion into production activities,” Eyitayo said. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…First Bank reiterates commitment to creating wealth for the unbanked Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…First Bank reiterates commitment to creating wealth for the unbanked MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details