Nigerian award-winning writer, Obinna Udenwe’s short fiction, ‘It Has to Do With Emilia’, published in 2017 in AFREADA magazine, has been adapted into a short trailer by award-winning Namibian filmmaker, Bridget Pickering. ‘It Has to Do With Emilia’ tells the story of an unusual love affair between a struggling job-seeking young man named Temitayo and an older evangelist named Emilia, who shows up on his door one day to share the gospel. The film bears the same title with the short fiction and is set in Yeoville, Johannesburg, South Africa. Bridget Pickering produced the film under her film company BUMP Films and it was directed by her daughter, Lunar Pickering. According to Brittle Paper magazine, the movie stars South African actors Zenzelisphesihle Sparky Xulu as Temitayo and Didintle Khunou as Emilia. The film is set to screen soon at select upcoming festivals across Africa.  Obinna Udenwe is the winner of the 2021 Chinua Achebe Prize for Literature and a 2021 NLNG Prize for Literature shortlisted author for his book ‘Colours of Hatred’. The civil engineer-turned writer is also the author of ‘Satans and Shaitans’ and the founding editor of The Village Square Journal. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Supreme Court upholds Ganduje  Supreme Court upholds Ganduje Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Supreme Court upholds Ganduje  Supreme Court upholds Ganduje