Former Chief of Staff to Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Hon, Muhammad Sani Abdullahi, has emerged the senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Kaduna Central senatorial district. He was returned unopposed in the primary election held at Umaru Musa Yar’adua Hall, Kaduna on Saturday after his two opponents, Usman Sani and Hajia Rabi Salisu withdrew from the contest. The Returning Officer of the election, Mohammed Hafiz Bayero, said 405 delegates from the seven local government areas that make up Kaduna Central were registered. However, said 396 delegates were accredited, but 388 voted for Muhammad Sani Abdulllahi, while eight votes were invalid. He disclosed Abdullahi, having polled the highest number of votes cast, is declared the winner of the primary election. Speaking after his declaration as the winner, Abdullahi who was also the immediate past commissioner for Budget and Planning, expressed appreciation to the aspirants who withdrew from the contest.  He also solicited their support to ensure the party becomes victorious in the general election. He expressed optimism that APC will become victorious in the general election considering the good work of Governor El-Rufai’s administration. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details