Fighting in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo over the past week between the army and the M23 rebel group has forced more than 72,000 people from their homes, the United Nations said on Friday. The M23, a rebellion claiming to represent the interests of ethnic Tutsis in eastern Congo, is staging its largest offensive since a 2012-2013 insurrection that captured vast swathes of the countryside. There has been heavy fighting as near as 20 km (12 miles) to eastern Congo’s main city of Goma, and the rebels briefly captured the army’s largest base in the area. Of the 72,000 who have fled, about 7,000 reportedly crossed into neighbouring Uganda, the U.N. Refugee Agency said in a statement. Others have headed to Goma or taken shelter in sites built to house people fleeing a volcanic eruption last year. Eastern Congo has experienced near-constant conflict since 1996 when Rwanda and other neighbouring states invaded in pursuit of Hutu militiamen who had participated in the 1994 Rwandan genocide. Congo has 5.6 million internally displaced persons, the most in Africa, according to U.N. figures. There are at least 1.9 million in North Kivu, the province where the current fighting is taking place.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Resurgent east Congo violence displaces 72,000 in one week MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG Resurgent east Congo violence displaces 72,000 in one week HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details