A suspected kidnapper, on Wednesday, narrated how his gang members kidnapped, raped and thereafter shot their victims to death. The suspect identified as Aminu Lawal whose gang was operating along Abuja-Kaduna Expressway before his arrest was paraded along with 30 others in Abuja by the Force Public Relations Officer, FPRO, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, for offences ranging from kidnapping, conspiracy, armed robbery, illegal possession of arms and ammunition’s to cattle rustling amongst others, Lawal disclosed that his gang members operated along with other syndicates in Kaduna under the leadership of one Yellow Asar, Also during the parade, another kidnap suspect demonstrated how the captured were chained together before taking them to their base for profiling. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs  Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. How we raped, shot our victims ― Kidnap suspect MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details