A former Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to former Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, Deji Aboderin, has clinched the Social Democratic Party ticket for the House of Representatives seat for Ibadan South-East/North-East in the 2023 general elections. Aboderin emerged as the winner at a well-attended congress held at the open ground, near the Orita Aperin Police Station in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Some of the national officers of the party and the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agents were on the ground on the occasion to coordinate the activities during the exercise. In 2019, the politician who ran on the platform of the All Progressives Congress for the same seat came second to Abass Adigun Agboworin of the Peoples Democratic Party who was returned as elected at the poll. While expressing his appreciation to the party for deeming him fit and credible to run for the position in the coming election, Aboderin said he was optimistic about victory this time around. He urged the electorate to be guided as they exercise their franchise in the coming election by voting credible candidates in a bid for the country to break loose from the noose of corrupt and selfish leadership.  According to him, misgovernance occasioned by bad leadership is responsible for the depressing state of the nation. He said, “My party has a good array of candidates to represent the interest of the people in the coming dispensation. I am very sure, that if Nigerians can give us a chance if the people in my constituency can give me a chance, we shall prove to them that not all politicians are liars. “The problem is that the electorate had been voting for the wrong candidates. The right candidates are in the SDP. For Ibadan North-East/South-East, the right candidate is in the SDP. “Why Nigeria has yet to get it right is because wrong candidates were fielded to run the system. People just follow the noise rather than measure the integrity and track records of politicians. “Rather than just voting blindly along party lines, voters should check the integrity of the candidates.” The Publicity Secretary for Social Democratic Party, Michael Idowu, described the primary as free and fair, saying that the party ensured that the interests of aspirants were duly addressed. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Primary Election: Aboderin emerges as SDP Reps candidate in Oyo MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Primary Election: Aboderin emerges as SDP Reps candidate in Oyo HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details