Niger State Police Command has announced the rescue of about 15 kidnapped victims unhurt from their abductors during a gun duel between the joint Security Tactical teams, some Vigilantee members and gunmen suspected to be armed bandits. The bandits were said to have scampered for safety and abandoned two of their operational motorcycles, following the superior firepower of the joint security tactical teams. The incident was said to have occurred on Monday, May 9, 2022, at about 8:30 pm around Jellako Village in Rafi Local Government Area of the state following a tip-off by some concerned citizens that some armed bandits were sighted in the area. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the Command, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, stated this in a press statement issued and made available to journalists on Tuesday in Minna, the state capital. The PPRO said, “the victims were rescued unhurt by the teams and taken to a nearby hospital for medical attention while the two motorcycles were equally recovered.” He however assured that the victims will soon be reunited with their families after receiving medical attention.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her…