The ancient town of Kabba, Kogi west senatorial district of Kogi State again witnessed another explosion on Sunday night. Tribune Online gathered that the explosion occured at about 9.15 pm on Sunday night at a bear parlour joint opposite a police station. This is the second explosion in that community in one month. The first explosion which generated controversies as to whether it was a bomb or a Gas cylinder, occured on May 11 at a beer parlour around Lewu Junction in Kabba Town. While lives were lost out of the 16 persons affected in the first explosion, this time around, no person was affected besides property. The Kogi State Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP William Aya who confirmed the incident to the newsmen in Lokoja, said there was no casualty. The Police spokesperson explained that the explosion happened at one Omofemi Bar at Okepadi Quarters, Kabba, around 9.15 pm on Sunday.  “As it is now, there is no casualty, but only chairs and tables and the building is affected by the yet to be determined nature of the explosion. “Already, the Commissioner of Police, Mr Edward Egbuka, has directed our DC Investigations and the Bomb detective Squad to move to the scene to ascertain the very nature of the explosion. “The police are on top of the situation as our officers and men drafted to the area have cordoned the place until an investigation reveals the real cause of the explosion. “It’s very unfortunate that criminal elements are out to disrupt the prevailing peace we are enjoying in Kogi. “We shall not rest until we bring to book such elements and let them see the need for maintenance of peace in our society,” he warned. Aya called on the people of Okepadi and Kabba to be calm and go about their normal duties without any fear as the police were on top of the situation.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details