As Nigerian journalists join their professional counterparts across the world to mark the 2022 World Press Freedom Day, the Speaker, Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Barr Kennedy Ibeh has lauded the doggedness of Imo and Nigerian journalists in nation-building. In a press statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Ifeanyi Onyekachi on Tuesday, he described Nigerian journalists as nation builders, whose roles have sustained Nigerian democracy. He advised journalists to seize the opportunity to appraise and recommit themselves to the ethics that guide their noble profession. He said: “Without adherence to ethics, professions will become part of national malaise, rather than solutions”. He advised journalists to constantly recommit to the canons of fairness, accuracy, objectivity, balance, and other ideals that guide their profession. The speaker urged journalists to rededicate themselves to the role of being watchdogs of the society,  While celebrating the World Press Freedom Day.  He said: “We as the government will continue to support the media and ensure that journalists are not muzzled in any way.” The speaker appealed to journalists in Imo to see themselves as partners and always support Gov. Hope Uzodimma’s administration by projecting Imo from a positive angle. It would be recalled that World Press Freedom Day is observed every May 3, to celebrate fundamental principles of press freedom, evaluate press freedom around the world, and defend media from attacks on their independence. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Buhari Urges MTN For Quality Service, Downward Price Review In Cost Of Data, Other Services President Muhammadu Buhari Friday at State House Abuja urged the MTN Group to make the available top-of-the-range service to its Nigerian subscribers… We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…