Kogi State Police Command on Thursday confirmed an explosion in Kabba which killed one person and many injured in a beer parlour. According to the press statement issued by the SP William Ovye Aya Police Public Relations Officer stated that they received a report of an explosion at a drinking joint, Labi bear parlour Lewu junction, Kabba suspected to be Gas Explosion. “Immediately, the Commissioner of Police, Kogi State Command, CP Edward Egbuka deployed teams of personnel from Police Mobile Force, Quick Response Unit as well as conventional Officers to the scene along with the Military personnel to control access and evacuated the victims to Hospital. Normalcy has been restored in the area “During the process, one Aisha who was injured by the explosion and evacuated to the hospital with others injured later died. Others receiving treatment. “The Commissioner of Police directed Deputy Commissioner of Police Investigation to commence investigation into the incident along with the personnel of the Explosives Ordinance Department (EOD) to unravel the cause of the explosion “The Commissioner of Police urges members of the public to go about their lawful business while reiterating the Command’s level of commitment in synergy with other security agencies in ensuring the safety of lives and property.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents Explosion killed one person, many injured in Kogi In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo Explosion killed one person, many injured in Kogi MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details