Gunmen on Sunday afternoon killed an unidentified policeman at Ogidi, Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State, dispossessing him of his rifle. A source in the area said the gunmen stationed themselves close to Ogidi Town Hall, where some policemen usually man a checkpoint. “They stayed there for a long time, waiting, until they sighted one of the policemen, who they shot on the dead, and dispossessed him of his AK 47 riffle, before they fled,” the source said. The spokesperson of the state Police command, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, while reacting to an enquiry from Tribune Online about the matter, confirmed that there was a gun duel between policemen and some hoodlums, which led to a fatal wound on one of the policemen. He said: “Information before me states that on 29/05/2022 at about 12:50 pm, Police Operatives on observation patrol along Abatete expressway, Ogidi engaged some armed hoodlums. “Unfortunately, during the gun duel one of the police operatives was fatally wounded and due to the superior fire of the police, the gunmen were made to flee the scene.”  Ikenga, however, said the operation at the scene was still ongoing and patrol has been intensified in the area. He promised that further development will be communicated. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details