The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has again restated June 3 as the final date for political parties to conclude the conduct of their presidential conventions and other Primaries. Festus Okoye, National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee of the Commission disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Okoye urged political parties to stick to the timeline in deference to certain provisions of the Electoral Act. The statement recalled that “Nominations for Presidential and National Assembly elections shall be submitted through the INEC web portal from 10th to 17th June 2022 while Governorship and State Houses of Assembly nominations shall be submitted between 1st and 15th July 2022.” INEC urged political parties to ensure that their candidates emerged from validly conducted primaries. The statement read in part: “It will be recalled that on 26th February 2022, the Commission released the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Election. It provides for parties to conduct their primaries for the nomination of candidates from 4th April to 3rd June 2022.  “In compliance with section 82(1) of the Electoral Act 2022, all 18 political parties have served the required notices indicating the dates for their conventions, congresses, and primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for various elective offices as specified in the Constitution and the Electoral Act. Some of the parties have already commenced the process for which the Commission has deployed staff to monitor the exercise as required by law. “Given the importance of the exercise to the emergence of candidates for the various elective positions for the 2023 General Election, it is imperative to remind political parties that they have one month from today to conclude their primaries. The deadline remains Friday 3rd June 2022. While urging the parties to ensure a rancour-free and transparent exercise, the Commission reiterates that the deadline is firm and fixed. “Nominations for Presidential and National Assembly elections shall be submitted through the INEC web portal from 10th to 17th June 2022 while Governorship and State Houses of Assembly nominations shall be submitted between 1st and 15th July 2022. “Political parties are further reminded that they must submit to the Commission the list of candidates who must have emerged from valid primaries. “The Commission will continue to work with political parties to ensure fidelity to the Constitution, the Electoral Act, and the timelines for all the activities contained in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Election.” IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE