A 20-year-old and 100 level student of Educational Administration, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Arafat Ajayi has been declared missing by her parents and families. Arafat was said to have left home on Thursday, 26th May 2022 and is yet to return since then despite every measure of her guardians to locate her whereabouts. Speaking with Tribune Online, her guardian, Mrs Adebimpe Ibrahim said, “My daughter left home around 5am on Thursday and since then, we have searched almost everywhere to locate her. We even reported to the Igbogbo police station, Ikorodu to help us find her and we were told that it has been radioed to other units.” “We are also intimating her university about the development but it’s just sad that we haven’t located her till now. I am losing it already and I don’t know how much more I can take if she’s not found,” she added. One of her sisters who doesn’t want her name in print also expresses her worry about Arafat’s location adding, “she’s a cool and religious devotee, having to part with her this long is worrisome and we are hoping that she will reunite with us soon.” Meanwhile, the police said they are making an effort to locate and reunite her with her family soon.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…UNILAG student Arafat Ajayi  UNILAG student Arafat Ajayi Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…UNILAG student Arafat Ajayi  UNILAG student Arafat Ajayi