Controversy has trailed the outcome of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Kogi East and Kogi Central Senatorial Primaries over irregularities. In Kogi East, the incumbent, Senator Jibrin Isah, popularly known as Echocho got 472 votes to beat his rival, Prince Yahaya Audu, brother to the former Governor of Kogi State, late Abubakar Audi who got only six votes, while one vote was declared invalid. In his reaction, Prince Audu said rejected and disagreed with the outcome of the Kogi East APC Senatorial District primaries held in Idah on Saturday. He said he was denied entry into the venue to witness the process. He added that his agent was equally disallowed entry into the venue, saying the primary election was a sham. While pointing out that no election allows you not to have an agent, he vowed to challenge the outcome, as it didn’t meet the requirements and guidelines for the conduct of the APC primaries.  Similarly, the election in Kogi central was also controversial. The former Kogi State Commissioner for Works, Hon. Abubakar Ohere, won the ticket for the central senatorial district. He scored 260 votes while Ramat Tijani Atta scored 13 votes, and Dalhatu Sheriff with 11 votes. However, Ramat Tijani Atta and Dalhatu Sheriff staged a walkout at the venue as they both alleged irregularities in the process. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details