Former Vice President and the 2019 presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has once again emerged as the party’s flag bearer in the  2023 election. He emerged victorious in the primaries conducted at the national convention of the main opposition party inside the Velodrome of the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja on Saturday. Twelve aspirants took part in the contest following the withdrawal of Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Dr Nwachukwu Anakwenze and Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. The former Vice President polled a total of 371 votes to defeat his nearest rival, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State who garnered 237 votes. The result of the election declared showed that the former president of the Senate came third with 70 votes. This is how they voted:  Total void votes = 12 Oliver Diana = 1 vote Sam Ohanbuwan = 1 vote Pius Anyim = 14 votes Udom Emmanuel = 38 votes Bala Muhammed = 20 votes Bukola Saraki = 70 votes Nyesom Wike = 237 votes Abubakar Atiku = 371 votes YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Work, Sleep, Phone Usage Cause Spondylosis, Pain In Legs, Arms, Back —Dr Oladiran, Consultant Orthopaedic And Trauma (Hip) Surgeon Dr Ajibola Oladiran is a lecturer and consultant orthopaedic and trauma surgeon with a subspecialty in hip surgery and sports medicine at the College of Medicine and the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. In this interview by SADE OGUNTOLA, he speaks on spondylosis, a silent problem on the prowl that affects the productive age and why it is important for one to take care one’s back and joints as one ages. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo
Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel… IPOB Not On UK’s List Of Terrorist Organisations — British High Commission The British High Commission has debunked reports circulating in the media and online that the UK Government has added the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to the UK’s list of terrorist groups or organisations banned under UK law.  These reports are untrue, it declared. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details