An Ikeja Special Offences Court has dismissed a no-case submission by Victor Aduba, charged along with kidnap kingpin, Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike (alias Evans). Aduba, an ex-soldier and Evans are charged with kidnapping a businessman, Mr Sylvanus Ahamonu, and collecting a $420,000 ransom from his family. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo ruled that prosecution established a prima facie case against Aduba, adding that his no-case submission dated February 23 failed. “I have carefully considered the submissions of the prosecution and the defence. “The court at this stage, is not to review evidence of the prosecution but to see whether the prosecution has enough evidence before the court to warrant the defendant to defend himself. “Evidence of the prosecution shows that it has sufficiently proven a prima facie case against the defendant and the defendant has a case to answer.  “I hereby dismiss the application of the defence, and order that the defendant should open his defence,” Taiwo ruled. Defence counsel, Mr Emmanuel Ochai, had argued that prosecution failed to establish a prima facie case against the defendant. He, therefore, prayed the court to dismiss the charge against his client. Prosecution counsel, Mr Yusuf Sule, had, however, asked the court to determine whether the evidence adduced sufficiently linked the defendant to the alleged offences. Evans had on Feb. 4 opened his defence and denied kidnapping Ahamonu and collecting $420,000 ransom from his family. The judge expressed dissatisfaction at the absence of the defendants on March 28 which stalled their the trial. The judge adjourned the case until June 15 for Aduba to open defence. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Court dismisses no-case submission  Court dismisses no-case submission Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Court dismisses no-case submission  Court dismisses no-case submission