Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, Ondo State, has again recorded 100 percent in the accreditation exercise conducted by the National Universities Commission (NUC) in December, 2021. During the exercise, seven programmes: Hotel Management and Tourism, Performing Arts, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Environmental Management and Toxicology, Economics and Mass Communication, were examined. The registrar of the university, Mr Omololu Adegbenro, said in a statement that the letter conveying the approval, and signed by the commission’s Director of Accreditation, Dr Maryam Sali, enjoined the university to keep up the good work. According to the statement, all the programmes run by the university presented for accreditation got full accreditation status. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo…