House of Representatives aspirant for the Ikorodu Federal Constituency under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr AbdulKareem Shittu, has urged the leadership of the party to encourage only indigenes to contest for the ticket. The House of Representatives hopeful made this call on Monday while speaking with newsmen, ahead of the party’s primaries. Shittu, while making the call, argued that Ikorodu had always been known to encourage indigeneship, saying it would, therefore, be out of place to allow non-indigenes to contest for the House of Reps ticket as, according to him, “things cannot be different now.” “There has always been a huge clamour for an indigene of Ikorodu to emerge as the candidate of the party. There are three indigenous councils in Lagos State, namely; Epe, Badagry, and Ikorodu. “Of these three councils, Ikorodu is the only one that is not considering an indigene to represent them from our party, this is wrong,” he said. “You will recall that the traditionalists from Ijede-Imota went on a parade recently, publicly warning anyone who deviates from the rotational arrangement in place in the federal constituency as it concerns the House of Assembly elections.  “The people of Ikorodu, including the traditional institutions, are now mobilizing people to make sure indigenes are fielded for various positions for both PDP and APC,” he added. “Ikorodu local government has never since inception had an executive chairman who is a non-indigene. Also, since 1999, the Reps member for the constituency has always been an indigene. “The present Reps member, Babajimi Benson, is also an indigene of Ikorodu, so why would the case of PDP be different, if we really want to grab the House of Reps ticket,” he added further. Four candidates are currently jostling for the seat on the party platform. They are Ms Omotolani Popoola, Mr Abdulkareem Olugbenga Shittu, Mr Awesu and Mr Temitope Odeyale. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…2023: Lagos PDP should field Ikorodu indigene to secure victory over APC in Reps poll ― Aspirant 2023: Lagos PDP should field Ikorodu indigene to secure victory over APC in Reps poll ― Aspirant Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…2023: Lagos PDP should field Ikorodu indigene to secure victory over APC in Reps poll ― Aspirant 2023: Lagos PDP should field Ikorodu indigene to secure victory over APC in Reps poll ― Aspirant MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details