Former National Chairman of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Victor Umeh, on Saturday lost his bid to return to the Senate as he lost the APGA Anambra Central Senatorial District primaries. Umeh lost the primaries to the serving House of Representative member representing Anoacha/Dunukofia/Njikoka Federal Constituency, Honourable Ferdinard Dozie Nwankwo. The Returning Officer for the exercise, Mrs Elizabeth Nwokocha, announced the result as follows: Senator Victor Umeh: 152 votes and Hon. Ferdinard Dozie Nwankwo, 162 while Uzu Okagbue ganerred 11 votes. Speaking to journalists shortly after he was announced the winner, Nwankwo, thanked the state governor, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, the National Chairman, Chief Victor Oye and the delegates for selecting him. He said he never believed he would defeat Senator Umeh in the contest. He extended the olive branch to his co-contestants and urged them to join hands with him to win the general election.  He commended the peaceful conduct of the primaries and promised to continue with his good work if elected at the general election. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details