The police in Cross River has confirmed the death of one policeman during a gun battle with suspected militants in Bakassi, Southern Cross River, on Friday morning. The Command Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, SP Irene Ugbo said, “It is not true that we lost two men when the Bakassi militants attacked us. We lost a policeman. We are still on their trail and we are sure to get them soon.” Sources said the attack happened at the Ikang jetty, in Bakassi LGA of Cross River State, and that a good number of other persons were injured during the attack and were evacuated to the hospital. The policemen were said to be on duty at the jetty. As at the press time, the name of the militant group was not known as none claimed responsibility. Recall that about a month ago, a pro-Biafran militant group bombed two gunboats in retaliation to the killing of their commander. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE  How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Viral Voice Note On WhatsApp Billing False Claim: A viral WhatsApp voice note, purportedly made by the director and CEO of WhatsApp, claims users will have to start paying for WhatsApp services. Verdict: The viral WhatsApp voice note claim is a hoax. The content is not new and has been circulated as a broadcast message several times in the past. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. One policeman killed, others injured by militants in Cross River One policeman killed, others injured by militants in Cross River MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details