A pro-democracy group, Kwara New Generation Forum (KNGF), has lauded the emergence of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq as the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a statement signed by the coordinator of the forum, Comrade Ben Duntoye, the group said that the victory was a testament to landmark achievements of the present administration in the state. The campaign organization, which said that the governor deserved a second term, called on him not to rest on his oars in his developmental strides for the state. Duntoye, who commended delegates and party leadership being led by Prince Sunday Fagbemi for the support of the governor, said that the governor’s return for a second term would signal a total turnaround in the fortune of the state. “The Kwara New Generation Forum is prepared to commence work immediately on the mobilization of voters from Ward to Ward and House to House to ensure smooth victory for the governor in the 2023 general elections” The group said that emergence of governorship candidates in other political parties in the state is no threat to the re-election bid of the APC governor.  The people said that the governor’s achievements in the three senatorial districts are unprecedented, adding that the governor’s re-election would further “fast track actualization of a new Kwara state of our dreams where developmental strides are visible and the people are free to make choices”. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Kwara APC primary: Group lauds Abdulrazaq’s emergence MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Kwara APC primary: Group lauds Abdulrazaq’s emergence HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details