Having acquired a $2.15 million seed fund, Mecho Autotech is poised to revolutionise the automotive industry across the African continent. To this end, Mecho Autotech, Nigeria’s foremost high-tech automobile company, has launched a digital platform, Mecho Retail App, that seeks to revolutionise the process of vehicle maintenance and repairs nationwide. This is in a bid to provide Nigerians, including businesses, with access to affordable high-quality automobile services to improve economic productivity. The strategic launch of the digital platform aims to leverage the usage of technological automation to offer both individuals and businesses seamless vehicular maintenance and repair solutions. This is in a bid to champion the formalisation of the highly-fragmented Nigerian vehicle maintenance ecosystem through connecting businesses to qualified in-house and third-party mechanics while also contributing to the socio-economic development of the Nigerian economy. Commenting on the launch of the digital platform, Olusegun Owoade, the Chief Executive Officer of Mecho Autotech, noted that the recent development reinforces the company’s commitment to ensure Nigerians have access to easy, affordable, and high-quality vehicle maintenance services.  “As an organisation focused on delivering unbeatable vehicle-related services, we have come to realize that Nigeria is a predominantly huge market for fairly-used vehicles while vehicular transportation remains our predominant mode of transportation nationwide. “As such, we decided to build a viable technologically-driven solution that cuts across vehicle inspection, vehicle maintenance and repairs, and auto-parts sales for all kinds of vehicles. This will help Nigerian businesses, including individuals, to maintain their profitability and productivity levels while also elongating the lifespan of their vehicles,” he said. Mecho Autotech is a Y Combinator-backed startup that connects car owners to quality repair and maintenance providers at an affordable cost through a digitalised platform. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Nigerian startup to reform Africa’s automative industry with $2.15m Nigerian startup to reform Africa’s automative industry with $2.15m MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details