Senator representing Abia South Senatorial district and Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, has finally dumped the People’s Democratic Party. Abaribe who during the week declined from participating in the Party governorship primary in Abia State said he could no longer stomach what he called impunity and illegality in the Abia State chapter of the main opposition party. In a letter addressed to his Ward Chairman and Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in his Obingwa Local Government Area of Abia State entitled, ” Resignation of my membership from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,” the Minority Leader said he took the decision to exit the PDP after due consultations. The letter reads:” I write to inform you of my decision to resign as a member of (the) Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “This development is consequent upon the shameful display of illegality, impunity and undemocratic decision of the party and after due consultations with my constituents.” In a separate letter to President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, “Notification of Resignation from the Membership of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Senate,” Senator Abaribe disclosed that he has ceased to be Senate Minority Leader, consequent of his resignation from the PDP.  “This is to notify you and my dear colleagues in the Senate that I have formally resigned my membership of the Peoples Democratic Party through my ward. This also means my resignation as (the) Minority Leader of the Senate.” “I wish to thank you and my dear colleagues in the Leadership of the Senate for the warm camaraderie we enjoyed while I was Minority Leader.” A source told Saturday Tribune that Senator Abaribe would join the All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA where he will battle for the Abia South Senatorial ticket with incumbent Abia State Governor and PDP senatorial candidate, Okezie Ikpeazu. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants Abaribe dumps PDP, resigns as Minority Leader MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba Abaribe dumps PDP, resigns as Minority Leader HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details