Canada’s government introduced legislation on Monday (May 30) to implement a “national freeze” on the sale and purchase of handguns as part of a gun-control package that would also limit magazine capacities and ban some toys that look like guns. The new legislation, which resurrects some measures that were shelved last year amid a national election, comes just a week after a gunman killed 19 children and two teachers in their classroom in Uvalde, Texas. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told reporters the new measures were needed as gun violence was increasing. “These are actions that doctors, experts and chiefs of police have been calling for, for years, and we’re acting on their advice,” he said. The handgun freeze would contain exceptions, including for elite sports shooters, Olympic athletes and security guards. Canadians who already own handguns would be allowed to keep them. Canada has stronger gun legislation than the United States but while its gun homicide rate is less than one-fifth of the U.S. rate it is higher than that of other rich countries and has been rising. In 2020 it was five times Australia’s rate.   YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents Canada introduces law to freeze handgun sales, ban look-alike toys In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… [ICYMI] Lekki Shootings: Why We Lied About Our Presence — General Taiwo Canada introduces law to freeze handgun sales, ban look-alike toys