There are strong indications that the build-up to the 2023 General elections in Bauchi State may be a rough situation following the alleged destruction of billboards and campaign posters and other symbols of a gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Nura Manu Soro. The allegation was made by a frontline member of the APC, National Chairman of Progressives Youth Forum, Ukkasha Hamza Rahama who alleged that the campaign materials of the aspirant across the Bauchi metropolis were destroyed. Ukkasha Rahama who spoke to Journalists at the Correspondents’ chapel secretariat on Wednesday, said that the development was just one of the increasing attacks on APC members in the state in recent times. He pointed accusing fingers at the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state saying, “The scenes of destruction of billboards and campaign posters of Nura Manu Soro led by unknown persons stand condemnable and unfortunate.” He stressed that “Manu Soro has constitutional right to contest whatever political seat he may deem fit according to the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria.” “The young politician decried the attacks on APC members in the state and called on the ruling PDP in the state “to call the thugs and their sponsors to order.”  He reiterated that the attacks on their members must be addressed ahead of the 2023 general elections. According to him, “The clampdown on the APC in the state should not continue to happen as the reoccurrence will pitch the parties and politicians against each other and deny the state any meaningful opposition.” “The governor as a beneficiary of the opposition must protect Bauchi long ancestral heritage where power and money do not win elections for aspirants,” he stressed. Ukkasha Rahama disclosed that he has petitioned the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba, over the attacks on their members calling on the state Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed to urgently address the problem before it gets out of hand. It will be recalled that Nura Manu Soro was a former Commissioner for Finance at the inception of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration of Governor Bala Mohammed but resigned barely three months after he was sworn in. All efforts to get the reaction of the PDP officials failed at the time of this report as the State Chairman, Hamza Koshe Akuyam did not pick up his phone when his number was called several times nor reply to the SMS sent to the number. The Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Yayanuwa Zainabari too did not pick up his phone when called. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state…Bauchi APC kicks  Bauchi APC kicks Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report…Bauchi APC kicks  Bauchi APC kicks