The immediate past National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Saturday emerged as the senatorial candidate of the party for Edo North Senatorial District. Oshimhole was returned unopposed as his rival, the incumbent senator for the district, Francis Alimikhena, had on Friday resigned his membership of the party and stepped down as an aspirant of the party. In Edo south, the former State Youth Leader of the party, Valentine Asuen defeated former deputy governor, Mr Lucky Imasuen, with 216 to 158 votes while four votes were voided. In Edo Central, Monday Okpebholo was returned unopposed as he was affirmed by 242 out of the 244 accredited delegates. Conceding defeat, Imasuen said he entered that race late and accepted the outcome of the result, saying “we need to now work together to ensure that we win the general election.” On his part, Asuen promised that he would work with all members of the party to ensure victory.  YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… I’m Every Man’s Choice Now, My DM Is Crazy —Eniola Badmus Nollywood actress, Eniola Badmus, popularly known as Gbogbo Biz Girl has revealed that her DM has been bombarded by would-be suitors, as she is now every man’s choice and has cried out that they should take it easy on her… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details