Unidentified gunmen on Sunday allegedly killed two military men in a shoot out at 3-3 estate, Nkwelle Ezunaka near Onitsha, Anambra State. A resident of the area who does not want his name in print said that the gunmen shot dead two soldiers on Sunday night. According to the resident, the shooting which started at about 10 pm and ended late in the night as expended shells dropped on the roofs of residents. It was gathered that the shootout started after the unidentified rifle-wielding men took the battle to the doorstep of the military at a spot where they are usually stationed within the estate. According to the source, residents of the area were scared all through the night as sounds of gunshots rent the air. The source said: “It is true. Yesterday night at the housing estate gate, unknown gunmen attacked the military men securing us. My estate was hot from 10 pm – around 12 midnight.”  Nigerian Tribune gathered that the gunmen also visited the Government Reserved Area (GRA) in Onitsha, where they also shot intermittently. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details