The Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, has debunked media reports attributed to him that he called on Igbo living in the North to flee the region over the murder of Deborah Samuel. Some sections of the media had reported that the monarch had asked Ndigbo to leave the Northern part of the country following the killing of Deborah Samuel, a student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto State over alleged blasphemy. The Monarch, in a statement by the Chief of staff, Ime Obi Onicha, Chinyeleugo Anionwu debunked the reports, describing them as fake. In the statement titled, “Obi of Onitsha has not issued any statement regarding recent events in the Northern part of the country”, the monarch asked the public to disregard such reports. The statement read partly “The attention of Imeobi Onicha palace has been drawn to a statement to the effect that His Majesty, Nnaemeka Achebe, Agbogidi, Obi of Onitsha has called on every Igbo living in the North to come back home immediately. “The statement which has gone viral on social media is fake and should be discountenanced.”  IN CASE YOU MISSED THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…  MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details