Terrorists, suspected to be Ansaru group, have released a pregnant woman of the Abuja /Kaduna train attack. Findings gathered that the woman was released on compassionate grounds. A video of the released pregnant woman was trending on social media in black abaya(along gown) and black face mark where she was called on the Federal Government to negotiate with the terrorists. She said it has become very imperative because of the uncertainty surrounding the plight of others who are still under the terrorists’ den. The woman said the terrorists took care of them and they were also well-fed. Not only that, she said the terrorists also took care of their medication.  Recall that the released pregnant woman was abducted along with others on March 28, 2022. So far she is the third person to regain her freedom since their abduction. Earlier, the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Hassan, was set free after the payment of N100m ransom and was followed by the son of Professor Ango Abdullahi, Sadik. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her. Marburg Virus: What You Need To Know About Disease Recently Detected In West Africa On Monday, August 9, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) confirmed the first case of Marburg virus in West Africa in Guinea. This development has sent shivers down the spines of West Africans who are still grappling with the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. But before this dreaded disease is greeted by rumours and misinformation, here is what you have to know about the virus. MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details