An All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial aspirant for Abia Central District, Sen. Nkechi Nwaogu, has withrawn from the senatorial race, citing protracted division in the party and use of indirect process of voting. In her statement made available to newsmen in Umuahia, Sen. Nwaogu said: “I wish to express my total disappointment in the ongoing protracted division in our Abia State chapter of APC. “The undemocratic manner of the emergence of the purported delegates has further fuelled the division in the party. “As a result, this has led to two different primaries in the same election – one group using direct mode of primary and the other using indirect mode of primary.” As a result therefore, “two governorship candidates emerged – High Chief Ikechi Emenike and Dr. Sampson Ogah,” she said. She further stated that “under this state of uncertainty, I find it very difficult to participate in the forthcoming senatorial.”  Nwaogu therefore announced her withdrawal from the senatorial primary, adding: “I will still remain an active member of the APC.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III… Court Admits More Evidence Against Alleged Fake Army General, Bolarinwa A Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos, presided over by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, has admitted more evidence against the alleged fake army General, Bolarinwa Abiodun, who claimed to have linked to former President Olusegun Obasanjo… MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details