Governor Bello Matawallen of Zamfara State has signed into law, the amended Emirates Councils Establishment law, effectively creating two more Emirates to the existing 17 in the state. The law, earlier passed by the State Legislature was presented to His Excellency in his office by the leadership of the House of Assembly for his consent, which he effectively did. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Zailani Bappa, on Wednesday. The statement said the two emirates created under the new law are Yandoton Daji emirate with a second class Emir created out of the present Tsafe Emirate in the state. “It will consist of Yandoton Daji, Keta, Kizara, Bawa Kwanga, Kwaren Ganuwa, Danjibga, and Kuncin Kalgo districts with Headquarters at Birnin Yandoto. “While the second emirate is Bazai, also with a second class Emir to comprise Bazai, Jangeru, Galadi, Katuru, Birnin Yaro, Tungar Kaho and Tubali districts with headquarters at Jangeru.  “Governor Matawalle expressed the hope that the new development will strengthen the existing bond of quality of traditional leadership at the grassroots level, pointing out that his government will always satisfy the yearnings and aspirations of the people especially when they are in tune with the developmental policies of his administration. “He called on the affected Emirate Councils to be constituted to use the new opportunities at their doorstep to foster more unity and instil more cohesion and discipline in the society as inherited from our forefathers.” YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE How Workplace Sexual Harassment Forces Many Out Of Their Dream Jobs Despite several laws prohibiting sexual harassment in Nigeria, many victims are forced to quit their dream jobs while others suffer depression as a result of unsolicited sexual advances from colleagues. FAITH ADEOYE reports. If you want to keep your job and excel in your career, you need to do as I say,” Janet Abegunde’s boss said to her one fateful day. Miss Abegunde, a 24-year-old accountant who had just gotten her first job in one of the new generation banks, said she fell into depression after her boss sexually harassed her.Matawalle creates two additional emirates Matawalle creates two additional emirates MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn
 from one or variety of businesses we invest in,ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction,Metals,Crude oil,Aviation,Hospitality etc. 
Click here for full details