Authorities of the First Technical University, Ibadan, say they have not yet released the cut-off mark for admissions into the 2022/2023 session, contrary to some reports circulating in some online media. A statement signed by the public relations officer of the university, Akeem Lasisi, quoted the vice-chancellor, Professor Adesola Ajayi, as describing the publication as hasty, speculative and unfounded. “Admission process is still on at the First Technical University, Ibadan, but we have yet to announce our cut-off mark. We will, as usual, do so on our official website and other verified channels as soon as the time is ripe. “The University appreciates the fact that, due to its stable, uninterrupted academic calendar, as well as the growing reputation of Tech-U on the national academic landscape, more parents, students and other stakeholders are eager to connect with us. Tech-U, however, implores all interested applicants to please be patient for due admission process,” the vice-chancellor noted. The university management urged parents and other stakeholders to ignore such false reports. Within the five years of its coming on stream, the First Technical University, Ibadan, has grown into the reckoning, grooming total graduates who are academically, vocationally, and entrepreneurially ready to uplift the national economy.  Within the period, Tech-U was ranked the seventh-best state university and 27th nationally by the National Universities Commission. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered…Tech-U has not released cut-off mark for admission ― Mgt Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics…Tech-U has not released cut-off mark for admission ― Mgt Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba SUCCESSION battle for the throne of Alaafin of Oyo has begun in earnest in Oyo kingdom, as interested ruling families have picked up the gauntlet to produce the successor to the late Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III…Tech-U has not released cut-off mark for admission ― Mgt HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details