THE Teachers Registration Council, (TRCN) has rescheduled its Batch A of the 2022 teachers’ Professional Qualifying Examination (PQE) in Sokoto and Zamfara states over recent security concerns while a total of 9, 204 candidates sat for the exercise nationwide on Saturday. This is just as the Federal Government has insisted that all teachers who have failed to register with the TRCN and get certification after sitting for the PQE are not qualified to teach in classroom in Nigeria. Acting Director of Certification and Licensing, TRCN, Dr Jacinta Ogboso, while supervising the examination at SASCON International School in Abuja, disclosed that a total of 9,480 candidates registered to participate for the exercise. She, however, explained the Council in its wisdom shifted the examination in Sokoto and Zamfara as a result of the recent security concerns. Ogboso noted that 125 candidates registered for the exercise in Sokoto while 151 candidates registered in Zamfara state, adding that the examination in the two states will be rescheduled as soon as the situation is better. More than 663 candidates sat for the examination in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT. “We have to reschedule the exams for Sokoto and Zamfara states because we want to be sure of the situation. So those two are not writing today. They are going to either write online or we find another time,” she said.  She noted the conduct of the examination was smooth and hitch-free across the country, adding that since TRCN started the examination in 2017, it keeps improving on the processes. On fighting malpractice in the conduct of the exercise, she said TRCN has put in place a process of accreditation through a platform that the ICT department has developed, which is able to detect the actual people registered for the examination to avoid impersonation of candidates. According to her, every candidate is expected to go to the area where he registered to be accredited, and that candidates were not allowed into the exam hall with phones or any banned item to ensure that nobody does anything funny. “Inside the exam hall, we have our officers who go round to check each person to the computer that is being used to ensure that the photograph of that person is the same with the person writing that examination. Ogboso disclosed that the examination has been reduced to two diet per year due to reduction in applications, adding that the surge in applications earlier experienced at the peak of the PQE was due to the rush to meet the deadline for implementation of government’s policy of ensuring that only professionally qualified teachers were in its school system. “In 2019, 2020, we recorded 69,000 and in in a year we were recording over 100,000; that was at the peak of the registration when TRCN wanted to enter into the implementation of unqualified people leaving the classroom as had been mandated by the federal ministry of education,” she said. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. David Adejo, who also monitored the exercise at SALSCON International School, said teachers who have not registered to write the PQE were not teachers as far as Nigeria is concerned. “For instance, in the medical profession, after your university, there is a compulsory exam you must pass before you are a doctor; and for a teacher, you must pass through this compulsory exam before you are a teacher. So, those who have not pass through this process are only at best to be said to be impersonating, and government cannot allow that going forward; we need to standardise the teaching practice; this exam is one of things that will so that,” Adejo said. He praised the conduct of the exercise noting that the processes of accreditation, examination, and resetting of the systems for the next set of people to come into the hall was great as everything went peacefully and orderly. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE We Have Not Had Water Supply In Months ― Abeokuta Residents In spite of the huge investment in the water sector by the government and international organisations, water scarcity has grown to become a perennial nightmare for residents of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. This report x-rays the lives and experiences of residents in getting clean, potable and affordable water amidst the surge of COVID-19 cases in the state… Selfies, video calls and Chinese documentaries: The things you’ll meet onboard Lagos-Ibadan train The Lagos-Ibadan railway was inaugurated recently for a full paid operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation after about a year of free test-run. Our reporter joined the train to and fro Lagos from Ibadan and tells his experience in this report… HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY