Bergstrom said that no contract with either firm had yet been signed. “But it will go quickly. We should have a contract ready in a week or so and maybe some limited deliveries in June,” the paper quoted him saying. A Bavarian Nordic spokesperson confirmed HERA had contacted the Danish biotechnology company regarding its vaccine. “We’ve had several calls with HERA…we have no idea when there will be an agreement. It is not up to us to say when there will be an agreement – there are two parties involved,” the spokesperson said. If an agreement was in fact reached, Bavarian Nordic had enough supply to satisfy demand, he added. Smallpox and monkeypox viruses are closely related. Bavarian Nordic’s vaccine has official European approval for smallpox, although doctors can prescribe it off-label for monkeypox. SIGA’s treatment tecovirimat – branded as TPOXX – has European approval for smallpox, monkeypox and cowpox. Global health officials have tracked more than 200 suspected and confirmed cases of the usually mild viral infection in about 20 countries since early May. Symptoms of monkeypox – which can include fever, distinctive rashes and pus-filled skin lesions – can last for two to four weeks, but often resolve on their own. The variant of the virus implicated in the current outbreak is believed to kill a small fraction of those infected. YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Revealed! Details Of South-West APC Leaders Meeting With Presidential Aspirants EU in talks for common purchase of vaccine, antiviral against monkeypox MORE revelations have emerged about Friday’s meeting held by South-West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with aspirants from the zone, whose main objective, was on how to avert a crisis that will create a fractured party as it prepares for primary on May 30 and 31, Sunday Tribune has reliably gathered… Supreme Court Has Cleared Civil Servants To Participate In Politics, Falana Tells FG NIGERIAN workers are constitutionally-free to participate in politics, lawyer, Mr Femi Falana has said. He was responding to the warning from the central government to civil servants to stay off politics… Battle For New Alaafin Begins As Ruling Houses Insist On Producing Next Oba EU in talks for common purchase of vaccine, antiviral against monkeypox HOW TO START AN ONLINE BUSINESS WITH NO MONEY MONEY MAKING OPPORTUNITY- We will pay you in naira or dollars(whichever you prefer) directly to your designated bank account as you will earn  from one or variety of businesses we invest in, ranging from Real estate, Agriculture, Transportation, Construction, Metals, Crude oil, Aviation, Hospitality etc. Click here for full details